
When the staff also got their residual building in Teekkari Village, it became a topical issue also for me. We had to move from the already familiar TKY 3/C horn. When the castle wardens were sitting at evening coffee at my place, my wife came to say that "we won't drag that old sofa to that new apartment." The castle wardens left. A few minutes passed, and two-three new teekkaris came into our apartment, asking where that sofa is. Before my wife and I even started to amaze, the teekkaris grabbed the couch and carried it away. To our surprise, these honored sofa carriers did not go down the stairs but up to the C's top scene balcony. I rushed after, and then I experienced there another "common-or-garden teekkari happening." These teekkaris had brought from somewhere a bucket of gasoline. The castle wardens doused "my precious group seat" with the substance mentioned above. The sofa was, to plagiarize the main castle warden's ceremonial speech, "had in such a valuable way for decades supported mainly Ossi's rump." I heard the command "one, two, three." Another host threw a burning match on the couch while the couch flew over the railing at point three. Blazing and hissing, my couch thus performed its last flight, finally crashing into the ground. An awesome campfire was formed in an instant on the ground. As the fire progressed, the steel springs bounced in different directions. And so teekkaris had helped me once again in my "difficulties." I later heard that in a room on the third floor, two teekkaris sat by the window, sternly studying. At least that much did the case draw their attention, that the one said in passing to the other: "By the way, there went a burning sofa from top to bottom.""