
Many kinds of ideological, non-ideological, and even economic alliances and groups were born in the vibrant life of Teekkari Village. One such was the registered association of Otaniemi Winegrowers. This society mainly consisted of chemists. It sought to create and develop a new pleasure substance industry in our country by experimenting with the most diversified raw materials, with domestic and foreign raw materials.

I became acquainted with the prestigious membership of the association little by little in the village's various castles and horns in connection with my visit. These "members" stood out very clearly from the rest of the residents so that their rooms resembled Dr. Jekyll's laboratory amazingly from the movie "Invisible Man." The room corners were full of glass bottles, glass tubes, refrigeration, and distillation equipment. The room was filled with the symphony of gurgle, fizz, buzz, hiss, and whistling. The association worked hard, really vigorously. After making their first product into a marketable condition, their special delegation trespassed into my official residence. My wife and I were taken by force from the bed. I was then wrapped around my neck by the brass chains of an honorary member of the winegrowers. I was also given a corkscrew and gallstone. My wife was invited with a solemn speech as an honorary taster to Otaniemi Winegrowers. Besides, she was handed the first bottle of "Sir Robert." The event ended with the honor melody "I started to go at a summer night"\*, sung as a premiere by the delegation. Unfortunately, this company, too, suffered a financial quite soon. The reason for this was that despite its efforts, the actual production amount was insufficient. You see, after the crucial tasting experiments, there was not much of the product left that could be sold.

\*Translator's remark: the original song, "Läksin minä kesäyönä käymään," is a romantic song. However, in this context, it was meant to be understood in a humorous context as "I [alcohol] started to ferment on a summer night.""