
Vappu - the noblest student festival, was also the climax of the academic year. The castle warden brainstormed well in advance to invent something new and previously unseen for Vappu in addition to traditional acts. The announcement of Vappu Day Rowdiness was on the eve at 12.00 and the beer relay at 14.00. The Vappu Rowdiness was announced by the castle warden from the TKY 4's roof. They stated their will being, "No one should be offended or walk like a stubborn ox. Instead, one has to be involved with the delight". The beer relay was the relay race between the village's horns and Police College around Servin Mökki. When a runner reached the finish line, the runner had to thirstiness a bottle of beer, and after it was drunk, the next runner was allowed to leave. In one Vappu, the castle wardens had decided that Otaniemi's own representative has to be far a fay to our Milky Way system. The representative's task was to explain to those they may encounter how the teekkaris receive the coming spring. "Teekkari Teemu Tynkkynen" was chosen for the position. This ambassador of ours was a doll assembled from old overalls and small balloons, and the result was a life-size doll. To the head of the doll was sturdily attached a teekkari cap. The cap naturally was equipped with a tassel. As usual, castle wardens had spectacularly declared Vappu Rowdiness. After that, they announced their decision to send a representative to space. Teemu was attached from one hand to a sizeable-sounding balloon and was then let go. Hanging with one hand from the sounding balloon and happily waving his legs, Teemu began his journey, soon disappearing the sky's blue. As I am writing this, there has been no news of Teemu yet. However, Iltasanomat magazine did publish a stunning news picture in which Teemu is at the height of a couple of hundred meters."