
The STS/KAL's\* teekkari committee approached me by phone in the fall -86 asking me if I would agree to come to be the Honorary Chief Judge. Well, a fossil such as me can not wish greater glory than to get yet once more involved with doing teekkarijäynäs. I thanked for the honor, and so on 23.9.86, we flew handsomely along with Finnair's blue-and-white wings to Vaasa, where all five technical universities' competition teams with their assistants and props. One of those universities was Åbo Akademi. We held an opening meeting in a cabinet of Hotel Vaasa, where the competition rules were explained. Also, the teams' participants and mandatory equipment were identified. Then, the jäynädoing began as the teams fade into different city directions, mysterious and glowing with enthusiasm.

As Helena Inkinen had already been elected as Secretary-General of the Competition Committee in Helsinki, I won't ramble anymore of this. Instead, I enclose the full report which she wrote. The report is exhaustive, and I find no fault in the report except for one jäynä that was not there. To be fair, she could not know about it because it took place during the second competition day in my hotel room early in the morning. I went to answer the phone rang, and a male voice verified me to be Ossi Törrönen.  After the verification, he expressed his astonishment that he really can not find the slightest fault in his car. Of course, I was confused, but when the voice asked that when according to my written promise, I would come to check that mentioned car, my brain started to function. I realized that a jäynä had taken place.

At night, a team had randomly put a letter on the windshield of a car. In the letter, I, Ossi Törrönen, admitted having hit that car. In that letter, I also promised to compensate for any damage to the car owner I had caused as long as he would just phone Hotel Vaasa where I lived. Well. The matter was clarified. Both I and the unknown voice on the phone were pleased when the "collision was dealt so flexibly."

At the start of the competition, one of the YO-YOs I had donated to each team was cutely left to hang from the index finger of the raised hand of the statue of liberty in the city's central square. This was a creative way to reduce 399 + 1 yo-yo's arsenal with five pieces. I had received those 399 + 1 yo-yos from teekkaris 2.4.1950.

**TEEKKARIS INTRODUCED THEMSELVES IN VAASA. THE 1ST NATIONAL JÄYNÄ COMPETITIONS**

The people of Vaasa got a foretaste of what the arrival of the technical university in the locality might bring when The First National Teekkari Jäynä Competition was held in the city 23.9.-24.9. Especially the Otaniemi teekkaris' already have a long tradition in doing jäynäs. Perhaps that earlier experience brought the victory of the race to Otaniemi. The Chief Jury announced the results of the competition at the Vaasa Market Square on Wednesday at 12.00. At that moment, the Honorary Chief Judge, honorary teekkari Ossi Törrönen, wearing the traditional judge's uniform, handed over to the winning team a challenge trophy. The challenge trophy is a radio loudspeaker from the 1920s. Each year's winner has to complete the prize with add-ons before handing it over.

This competition, which was implemented at the national level, was the first. From our country's from every five technical universities and faculties of technology or an equivalent teekkari association, a team participated. The purpose of the jäynä competition has been to promote the teekkari culture and elevate the teekkari spirit. According to the competition's Chief Jury, there is reason to suspect that the first national jäynä competition venue was influenced by establishing a new technical faculty to Vaasa. One influencing factor could have been the fear of wasting and unnecessarily disintegrating our country's scarce teaching and research resources.

**Statue to the Founder of the Faculty of Technology**

Mandatory equipment for the teams was, among other things, a drinking device for consuming the chosen refreshing liquids, first aid equipment, for example, in case of total flagging of a teekkari or fainting from the emotional touch of a beautiful woman (having received a kiss from a hairy teekkari male), Magdeburg hemispheres and counterweights to the post-glacial rebound of the Vaasa region. Quite original solutions were found in all the equipment; for example, the Lappeenranta team counteracted the Vaasa area's post-glacial rebound with a metal trash can. The plans of the new technical faculty were added as an extra weight to the trash can. Several teams had retained responsibility for keeping the hemispheres to their female representatives. In the competition that started on Tuesday afternoon, the teams were given a mandatory task hidden between a provision roll. This obligatory task was to erect a statue of the founder of the Vaasa Faculty of Technology in Hovioikeudenpuistikko\*\* within a certain period of time. Thus, the following figures appeared to the park: 'Kusti - this is where you stayed - Koivuranta,' 'Gusse - the promoter of our time' and 'Kustu'\*\*\* tombstone for the idea of the Vaasa Faculty of Technology, which was born dead.

The teams also had to make 1 to N pieces volitional, as fun as possible, timely, and eye-catching escapades. Finally, teams had to verify their performance by delivering to the Chief Jury's knowledge orally, literally, monumentally, visually, magnetically, or by some other method.

**Essential Measurements**

The Otaniemi team facilitated the Chief Jury's work by presenting the jäynäs they had done by presenting as a single document. The document consisted of a compilation of pictures and texts. It was supplemented by a quarter of an hour audiotape. At the School of Economics, the Otaniemi team took measurements of water flow in toilet sinks and the effects of flushing the toilet bowl. The parameters used were, among other things, water temperature, the closing of toilet bowl covers, et cetera. The students of the School of Economics were utilized as research assistants. In addition, the team researched horizontal urea invasion in the men's rooms in several Vaasa's restaurants. The jury considered the audiotape of measurements particularly delightful.

In the Vaasa region, the post-glacial rebound is a well-known phenomenon. In the coastal waters of Vaasa, the people of Otaniemi drew with a marker to the waterline of the boat's side a line. This line was then used as scientific proof that also the sea levels are rising. In light of this research result, they collected the names of Vaasa residents for a petition. In the petition, they also express their concern about the rising sea water level.

A couple of team members then pretended to be Swiss experts. In this role, they were looking for the Vaasa University of Technology (VTKK), citing a letter of invitation that they had received from a professor. Naturally, the address of the VTKK was made up. Weird wonders; numerous Vaasa residents knew the route to the university. So there is no need for a new university. The team set up at the Market Square Vaasa Technical Play School from cardboard and collected registrations for the school. Besides, they organized at the Market Square a protest against the post-glacial rebound. Also, they kept the sauna warm, which they had erected behind the Statue of Liberty from the late night to the very next morning.

**Temperance Work: Oulu Style**

The foundation stone of the new technical faculty was built on the stairs of the School of Economics. The foundation stone consisted of the material which Oulu's teekkaris had found from the downtown area. Besides, the team built a state-of-the-artwork from bicycles to the School of Economics courtyard and entertained the people of Vaasa while moving around the city with high-quality trumpet music.

The team did excellent alcohol education and temperance work in Vaasa. To the windows of local Alko were attached advertisements of discounted wine sales: white wine -15%. To the doors of all the restaurants along the route, "private event" -notes were affixed.

Referring to the appearance and other factors, the doorman did not allow the team into the club of the School of Economics's student union. One of the team members decided to use a shortcut, i.e., crawled from the window on the ground floor. The club was located partially on the basement floor. However, the bartender urged him to leave as soon as his upper body was only on the bar counter. Upon leaving, the team confiscated the club's door sign, which had shown lousy customer service. The door sign was delivered as a document to the jury.

The Oulu teekkaris attempted with a respectable manner to take responsibility for the jäynäs they had done in the city by trying to surrender to the police three times with their hands being up. But, for some reason, the police officers did not take this with relevant seriousness. Not even then, when the team prevented a police van's from leaving the police station with stolen booms and traffic signs.

**Help for Björkstrand's Children**

Two members of the Lappeenranta team, dressed in ragged clothes, were raising funds for the children of Björkstrand. The monetary return was used to purchase beer. Also, the Sorbus shots offered by fellow fate comrades were gratefully received.

The folks from Lappeenranta hung at the beginning of the motorway a sign "Why would you come?" to welcome the tourists. A sign "You left - you won!" was hung to the opposite side of the highway. Along the city's entrance road, they built the foundation stone of the technical university by laying bricks. The brick material was acquired from the harbor and construction yards.  The Lappeenranta team also had the flag of Västerås from their previous trips. To that flag, the team added the mystical letters 'VTKK,' and the flag was raised to the flag pole of the rector of Vaasa University.

Also, the city's traffic signs were supplemented as required by the Technical University education. The following traffic signs could be found during the night from the streets: 'crawling direction prohibited from teekkaris,' 'crawling divisor,' and other necessary signs. A large 'Pohjola assures' sign was moved from a construction site next to a totally ruined house.

**Stickers and Road Signs**

Åbo Akademi's Kemistklubben team distributed in the city about 600 stickers, which were based on anti-nuclear power stickers. The Turku team stickers had the text 'Björkstrand - nej tack'. The team also earned credit by getting into the local newspaper's news with a large picture.

The Tampere team made their mark by organizing confusion for the jury already before the competition had even begun. At the equipment inspection, a local street man asked about the event in which the Roads' Knight would be chosen and which would be led by Ossi Törrönen. It was found out that Tampere's team had put such an advertisement in the Pohjalainen newspaper of the day. Above the Vaasa Court of Appeal's clock, the flag of the Blebeiji Club appeared during the evening. The team consisting mainly of the Blebeiji Club members also ended up in police interrogations after completing the exit roads' road signs. You see, they installed very realistically looking "The University of Technology" signs to point out directions that already had one. One sign was also installed in the port, which pointed out to Sweden. The team had obviously made also other jäynäs. However, the team stubbornly stuck to the idea that jäynä is not meant to be told. Still, it has to be detected by itself, so the documentation was very light.

Of course, only a part of what happened on the night of Vaasa has been presented above...

Text: Helena Inkinen

\*Translator's remark: STS = Suomen teknillinen seura STS ry. KAL = Korkeakouluinsinöörien ja arkkitehtien keskusliitto KAL ry. Nowadays both are merged under Tekniikan Akateemiset (TEK).

\*\*Translator's remark: "Small park of Court of Appeal."

\*\*\*Translators' remark: "Kustu" could be understood, in addition to a nickname, as "Pissed" in the sense of "the idea was screwed up straight from the beginning.""