
Once the Dipoli public restaurant's name was confirmed as Luolamies\*, it was decided to try to attract customers there with bold striptease dancers. And here, too, we set off what we think was very sensational. No fewer than three striptease dancers and one Finnish bodybuilding man were hired for two weeks. This man was a real caveman covered only with sheepskin, who carried in turns huge stones on stage and in turns dragged the stripper who was performing turn on stage. By the way, I lived harrowing moments on the opening night. The press had been invited and arrived in large numbers to see the magnificent three girls รก two strippings = sex. But we did not hear anything about the girls. You see, they all just arrived on the opening day and the same afternoon by plane from Hamburg. But due to the weather, the aircraft did not get to land down to Seutula before the evening's twilight. So me and then marketing manager Jaska Saarinen were really "in hot water" to sit with the press and wait. Well, they came before the morning, and the media liked the acts. This two weeks' opening ceremony was held in the largest cabinet of Luolamies', in other words, in a ballroom. The ballroom stage was made into a Stone Age cave, and the monstrous lizards of the past stepped along, projected onto the back wall. This attempt was also resented by a tant sending me a letter condemning "the presentation of such outrageous programs to noble academic youth." I rest my case.

\*Translator's remark: Luolamies stands for Caveman. The original architect proposal name for Dipoli was "The wedding march of Cavemen" during its initial stage before the construction of Dipoli."