
---
title: Ossin Lässyt
author: Ossi Törrönen
---

    
# 53. The Bad Luck Of The Thieves of Servin Mökki

Restaurant Servin Mökki was probably back in the day one of the best-protected places in our country against thieves. When it stood there alone in the woods during the quiet hours of the night, it is clear it drew the attention of the "field's professionals." We took counter-measures. We installed in the cottage "Super Magical" alarm devices. In all their simplicity, low-current switches were installed to every interior door of the cottage. These switches were mounted on the hinge side. All of these formed a circuit. So long as each entry was closed, all switches were also closed, and thus the circuit remained closed. Through this circuit flowed the power to the contactor, which was in our service house's basement. The contactor maintained the circuit. If any door was moved, the circuit ceased, the contactor fell, and four maintenance men and I received a simultaneous alarm to our apartments. We were within minutes on the scenes, one maintenance man at each side of the cottage, and after that, I stepped in the door by using my key and having Smith Wesson in my other hand. The surprise was always perfect. Sometimes we caught young beginners, sometimes routinized professional thieves. Everyone had the same question. How did you know to come here? We did not tell.

Fifteen (says 15) times during the history of Servin Mökki, we repelled the thieves' attacks with our technical miracle devices' help. The only task remaining for the Espoo police was to come and pick up "our catch." One night even twice. During that night, the first alarm took place around 02.00. We caught the man and temporarily covered the broken window by installing a plywood plate as a cover. An hour later, we received another alarm. Four maintenance men and I held a quick meeting in the same block of the service house where we all lived. We thought it probably was just a technical failure that caused the alarm. But since the night was already ruined anyway, we decided because of the principle to go check. The plywood we nailed and everything else seemed to be OK. However, once again, we raked the cottage's interior from corner to corner without finding anything. When we were leaving the kitchen, maintenance man Martti Turunen kicked two floor grates leaning against each other. He yelled half-jokingly: "I don't think anyone is lying down there." And there it laid down—another baddy.

He survived that first alarm in that hiding place. However, he started to move again and caused a new alarm. The man really hissed in disappointment. However, he left with us without any resistance. One of the first caught persons wrote me an actual letter from the Kakola prison from Turku. He inquired about the location of the alarm devices. I did not come to tell. A photocopy of the letter is in the archives of the Police College as a curiosity.

Yet another memory comes to my mind. It was a summer situation when I and maintenance man Esko Mäntylä were present. The others were on their annual leave. We noticed that a small window was broken from the corner behind the cottage. The whole window was open from the inside. At that moment, we knew there was someone or something inside. As a precaution, I told Mäntylä to sneak away and alert the Otaniemi police. I hide near that window. The police arrived at the scene very quickly, sirens howling. And now it happened like in Wild West. After hearing the sirens' howling, the two thieves rushed out the same way as they had come. They had no time to open the window, which was hanging from its top hinges. Instead, the hero dashed through the window and slammed into the lawn. It took a couple of seconds, and another thief flew the same way. He landed on top of the back of another thief. The police, in turn, rushed around from the corner. They later said that the sight was somewhat appalling. The dignified leader of Teekkari village stands with a pistol in his hand, and in front of him, two men roll in the grass, foreheads covered with blood. Both brave ones who came through the window got slight blood scars on their faces and hands."
