
---

title: titles.lassy60
author: Ossi Törrönen
---


    
# 60. Train Escapade Into Seven Cities

One of the peculiar escapades of teekkaris' in which I was involved comprised a tour with a very own train in as many as seven cities. The destinations were Turku, Tampere, Pori, Jyväskylä, Lahti, Kotka, and Helsinki. The train had a sleeping car for us "artists," an open car for the representative car Marmon, one for the RWBK fire truck, and one closed train car. The closed car included the exhibition of the technology really in a nutshell. During the night time, we moved from city to city, in the morning a factory tour with the lunch concerts played to the factory's workers, a lunch provided by the factory and in the evening an Escapade party in some amusement estate. We advertised this chargeable evening party during the day by driving on Marmor and Suihku-Siwiä, blowing the horns, and driving criss-cross the city centers. My glorious task was to drive the fire truck, and I had constructed smoke bombs that could be ignited with electric caps to its bottom.  The bomb switches were on the dashboard. Having arrived at the city's busiest crossroads, we attracted attention according to our modest tyle by turning off the car's engine. Then, I pressed one bomb detonator. The vehicle stopped and colossal smoke clouds puffed from the car's bottom. "The car is on fire - the car is on fire," shouted the RWBK band members roaring with the full force of their lungs, running headlessly, criss-cross and dragging hoses with them. Every time we managed to bring about quite a bit of the chaos in the city to the delight of its inhabitants and particularly of its police chief.

The evening party followed the pattern - teekkari quartet - escapade speech (escapade chief Arvilommi) - sketch, where the teekkari girls and teekkari boys put their best - four, average 90 kg weighing boys ballet and of course also RWBK, which in addition to its artistic part took care of the dancing. We were continually dragging with us a thick pine log, to which each city's mayors would nail the nameplate of their cities with a 7-inch wire nail. We could only get back to the train after midnight. The rest of the night was spent with "lively but even more active socializing and training marks'" as the train was huffing and puffing towards the next city. We did not have our own locomotive, but our unit was connected to suitable trains' tails. When our train left Jyväskylä, we noticed to our horror that our renowned teekkari quartet stood on the pier in their pajamas, presenting their bravura song: "Why are you far away, darling." There they remained to stay at the nocturnal Jyväskylä station with wine glasses raised. But when we came to the next "water intake site" after a short drive, didn't that same quartet stand there waiting for us. This time they were equipped with the melody: "I greet you." Everything was probably pre-arranged. Also, the taxi with the quartet got past us. When we came early in the morning to Lahti railway yard, there was no one except three ragged gypsy boys, an average of 6 years old. They immediately started to sing their tribe's ballads, to which we responded with our own while handing the relevant coins. When the singing competition ended, I jokingly asked these bright-eyed boys "to come as Lahti City representatives to our evening party at the vocational school." And how come. When the evening party began, among the first to arrive at the ballroom were these three Romani. Their faces were washed, their hair combed and dressed in absolutely clean, freshly washed sailor suits, though not ironed; from where their mother could have suddenly found an iron yet. They sat in front as our invited guests of the city, without moving from the beginning of the celebration to the end of the event. And to the front seat also came other official gentlemen."
