
---

title: titles.lassy16
author: Ossi Törrönen
---


    
# 16. A Construction Supervisor Runs Amok In Our Village

It is worth telling a couple of real disturbances that happened while I lived in Teekkari Village. These are worth telling precisely because the disorder and damage were caused by strangers who did not belong to the village in both cases.

One night I woke up in my apartment in C horn's upstairs apartment to the vast noise of jingle and racket from the house's ground floor. When I rushed to the balcony and looked down, I noticed something strange. A window was broken. A thick jet of water flew out from inside the house from time to time. At the same time, there was the insane loud-sounding roar of a male. I came down the stairs, and it all became clear when I arrived in the lower corridor. In the middle of the aisle stood a huge man, eyes glittering senselessly with a fire hose in his hand. The other end of the hose was attached to the fire hydrant of the wall. This madman then swayed the fire hose in his hand, and water came at full pressure, and whenever the water jet faced a window, the window glass was broken. We carried by the force of the horn's teekkaris an absolute storm on the man, we managed to tear the hose from him, and while we waited for the police's arrival, the man calmed down. He was unable to say anything intellectual to us. He just kept talking about the Winter War and submachineguns and enemies. He probably believed himself being in the middle of the tumult of the battle, a submachine gun in his hand, being surrounded by enemies. The authorities came, took the man to jail, and we started to bail the water out from the lobby. Tons of water had come to the hall during that rough stuff. That rest of the night went comfortably in it. The next day lensmann called me, and then the background of this event became apparent. After getting angry with his wife, this huge "hero of Winter War" had drunk alcohol in Helsinki. In a rigid drunken state, he had then drifted into Hietalahti Market Square and from the by the village's bus to Teekkari Village without even having any acquaintances there. When he could not find the front door of TKY 3, he had a rage with the aforementioned consequences. The last episode of the story was then really tragicomic. On the agreed day, the said great man came to my office with his rather delicate and small-sized wife to pay for the damage he had caused. As a dozen of those large windows in the hall had been shattered before we managed to tame the man, the amount was quite considerable.
When this delicate lady then loaded banknotes in front of me to my table banknotes, her monologue sounded something like this: "Five, six, seven thousand. There went Pekka's overcoat money. Are you still doing to drink? With this amount of money, we would have got the promised skis for Liisa. Eleven, twelve, thirteen. So much for that fixing of the radio. Fourteen, fifteen, sixteen. Are you still going to buy bottles from Albertinkatu?" et cetera et cetera. The counting took a long time, and all the time, that petite lady was spouting the text as mentioned above. I hope and believe that the family then moved on to their former peaceful life without alcohol's side effects."
