
When one day I was sitting in my workroom at TKY 3 being "in my thoughts," I heard from the adjoining office room a shrill shriek. I rushed there, and I saw Irma stare as if paralyzed on the paper in front of her. Without saying a word, she handed the paper to me. It had only one subtraction. Helsinki Telephone Associations' bills mentioned that Teekkari Village's call center's used call pulses had been subtracted during the same period. The finding was based on photographs, verified by the Village's machine-specific counters indicated pulse sum. The difference was tens of thousands of pulses. The residents had been charged tens of thousands of pulses less than the Village had to pay to Helsinki Telephone Association (HPY, Helsingin Puhelinyhdistys). Somewhere had to be such a significant leak or technical error. I called immediately to Siemens Oy, which had supplied and installed the center. Siemens Oy initially vehemently denied this being possible in the first place. All parties involved took action, and during that murmur from some residents, "the truth slipped out." It was possible. One could call from the Village to the remote level. Despite the receiving machine's location at the remote level, only one pulse was added to the Village's pulse calculators. HPY's main counter at Tapiola, on the other hand, buzzed with "full rounds" according to the distance of the phone call and its duration. This method, invented and naturally eagerly used by the teekkaris of the Village, was as follows: to call the remote level, it was needed in addition to caller A's machine an auxiliary machine B. For geographical reasons, the supplementary machine B had to be in the same dormitory. The method was IN ITS SIMPLICITY as follows:

```
A picked up the phone, chose 0, and got to the HPY center.
A chose the telephone number of Teekkari Village 460211 and requested to be connected to B.
B picked up the phone and answered.
B pressed the grounding button and received the free sound from the HPY center.
A rushed into B's room, took on B's machine 9, AND ACCESSED THE REMOTE LEVEL.
A chose the number they wanted and talked of their heart's fullness, for example, to Oulu.
```

When the call was over, only one pulse A appeared in A's counter, and to Village's main counter appeared all the aforementioned call's pulses. When this system was explained to Siemen's engineers, they let out a Finnish-German curse sum. Then, at about the speed of a light-year, a group of installers rushed to repair the defect. Fortunately, it was possible to fix it only with a soldering iron. And with four installers working with the phone call center. Once the situation was resolved, the Village's teekkaris began to hint at me as a joke that a new system was once again invented. This time three teekkaris are needed to co-operate, and three machines are required. "Yeah yeah," I said."