


    
# 92. President Urho Kaleva Kekkonen In Dipoli. Starting Of The Pinecone

When the president of our republic, Urho Kaleva Kekkonen, could not participate in the inauguration, he visited the place a few days earlier. He had promised to be the honorary janitor of Dipoli. At the same time, he was handed the key to the cleaner's cupboard, which has the honorary janitor's overalls, gloves, broom, and shovel. Those are always ready when needed. Also in that booth is the honorary boot of the honorary janitor; the shaft is about 1.5 meters high. The foot dimension is 0.5 meters.

Our president also inaugurated the moving pinecone statue, which teekkari Perkko designed. The starting took place, according to the inauguration instructor, by radio control. Kekkonen was handed a weird-looking wireless device, and he was instructed to press the button in the middle. And he pressed it; lo and behold. At the same time, the pinecone began to open, and also, music started to play. It has been told that Kekkonen said, "These teekkaris have their very own devices" when he saw this. However, after ten years, it must be noted in the name of truth that the pinecone opened more with an optical than with a wireless impulse. A contactor equipped with a button was brought from the Electrical Department. A teekkari was carefully observing the president's actions from the Dipoli's basement window. When Kekkonen pressed the button, he switched the pinecone's power on from the distribution board.

The next day the pinecone statue already got a competitor. Someone had attached a dry pinecone to the top of a cane, tied yet to it a rusty tin can to it, and pushed the stick upright in the grass. This mini pinecone statue had the following instructions for use: "Put 50 pennies or more in the tin can, then the pinecone will open in the sunshine but will close again when it rains". It was promised to use the raised funds for Christmas presents. The coins which ended up in the actual pinecone utilization vending machines were used for the teekkaris' student union TKY. As for the coins tossed the pool under the pinecone, the local little boys, who wore knee-length pants, took care of those with excellent cleverness. Among other things, they came up with the idea of tying a tablespoon to the end of a long stick. They earned ice cream and candy money effortlessly."
