


    
# 22. Collection Of Waste Paper For Hungary

One of the most glorious proofs that the teekkaris' escapades, almost without exceptions, took under great altruism was our rag and paper collection for the Hungarian people after the uprising in the 1950s. The uprising was suppressed by "foreign interference," and then the country was in turmoil and scarcity. All over the world, aid operations were launched for the benefit of the Hungarian people. The teekkaris also decided to take action. A teekkari came up with the idea of collecting waste paper and rags in Helsinki. The collection headquarters was established, propaganda mills were to put the grind in the press and on the radio while the headquarters distributed with the help of phone association's maps the city of suitable areas. Each area was given a proper amount of teekkari collectors. The residents of those areas were informed of the date on which the collectors arrive. That day came wet and rainy, but it did not dilute the enthusiasm. Apparently, almost every doorbell in Helsinki was ringed that day, and tassel caps stood behind the door to receive paper and rags. And a vast number of those really came. I remember that about 6,000 kg of rags and about 30-40 tons of paper were collected. And that day, it rained in Finland for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Although plenty of trucks were acquired for that time from different construction companies and others, those massive paper heaps had to wait for hours in the rain for further shipments. The trucks then came, and the wet papers were thrown on decks and taken to the scales. The top managers of a waste paper company said curtly that they have never bought as much water at the price of waste paper as on that day. But when the purpose was so good, they gladly paid for everything, and teekkaris donated with satisfaction quite a considerable amount of money to relieve the Hungarian people's plight."
