


    
# 39. Anastasia Mikojan Visits Servin Mökki

In the series "Prestige Guests in Teekkari Village," it must definitely be told about the visit of the then Deputy Prime Minister of Soviet Union, Anastas Mikoyan. He got to know Otaniemi and Teekkari Village briefly and concisely and also visited Servin Mökki. When Mikoyan, with many ministers, rectors, police chiefs, and other dignitaries, stepped inside the cottage's doors, there sat many teekkaris eating. As we know, when such a prominent person must ask ingenious questions from the citizens when moving along them. So Mikoyan then stopped at a table at which a lonely teekkari was currently eating his lunch. Mikoyan bent down the right side of the teekkari and said something in Russian. At lightning speed, the accompanying interpreter bowed from the left side of that teekkari and asked: "Why do you eat white bread?". This teekkari happened to eat a baguette."Well, I am hungry," this teekkari answered, surprised by the question. When the answer was then interpreted for Mikoyan, the result was a real laughing boom at Servi. The useless formality was gone. That teekkari had given a clear answer to a straightforward question. When the entourage then left Servi, I tried to get Mikoyan to lift a magical stone. That stone was soldered to the rock's edge using a car's cardan joint in any direction but did not detach. Our guest apparently guessed there was something fishy in it. Thus, he did not attempt to detach the stone in vain, as many before him and after him."
