
When the Otaniemi administrative committee's sewers began to fill from bums, invented the host of the administrative committee, MSc. Techn. Raimo Gummerus a brilliant idea. He chose from the bum group the most robust-looking man. He gave him unofficial permission to be in Otaniemi on the condition that he keeps the other bums away. And really efficiently, this "public servant" did his task. The tunnels and bomb shelters under construction remained empty. I was once going around Otaniemi with my big Great Dane. I came in the detour to the current Department of Electricity. There I noticed a sewer lid that was out of its place. I went closer, and my dog Doora growled with her low chest voice. When I looked into the well, there that public servant was sitting there in the warm well. To say something, I yelled into the well: "Bloody hell, get up now, at least to take a p:ss!". "Immediately, mister director," this man answered. When I continued my journey, I noticed the man did as I had prompted and went back into the well and pulled the lid into its place with him. When Teekkari Village's construction started, the whole Otaniemi, except for the old manor house, was ultimately an uninhabited woodland. To these woodlands, the bums and alcoholics then gathered in the summer in herds of tens. When the construction began, the number of beggars started to decrease little by little, ending up to that one "official." I wonder if he is still doing his duty. That's how romance steps aside as technology moves in."