
During the clashes and visits between the Police College and Teekkari Village was often customary to give to the representatives of the opposite of a wide variety of gift items. In my home archive are still in the place amongst other thins the following real valuables.

\*  The large metal badge used by the police in civilian suits during the Prohibition Act No U-225. The sign was affixed inside the police officer's civilian suit's lining. When these officers stopped the smugglers in the dark, it was reportedly necessary to illuminate the badge in the lining with a flashlight. The smugglers discover that it was a real cop and not a representative of a competing smuggling organization.
\*  Nationwide public key. A fine nickel-plated crowbar that the police PR office had once manufactured.
\* An accurate miniature of the stone statue which stands in front of the Police College. In this sizeable natural stone erected by the college students in 1963, a thick chain is attached to the rock at both ends. There is also a plate with the following text: "The chain is so strong as its weakest ring." That is an ingenious aphorism that certainly applies also to other organizations that are not formed by the police.
\* A complete moonshine factory on a scale of 1:10. This donation was accompanied by a small bottle of finished waste from moonshine manufacturing. It so happened that Spede Pasanen had in Dipoli the following week telecasting of SPEDE-SHOW with teekkaris. We took that moonshine factory with us, and one teekkari laid on the floor boiling and tasting moonshine during the whole show. That is probably the only time when in a TV program, moonshining was done publicly.
\* When I turned 60 in 1975, the police students remembered me by donating a half-meter wooden statue based on me. Unfortunately, due to the "lack of the living model," the artist had made it based on several photos. At the donation ceremony, the police also presented a song made by Kauko Katila that slandered me.
\* I once got a blower that tests the alcohol amount, one in which certain chemicals in a glass tube change color in relation to the breath's alcohol content. However, the device soon "ran out" as the village's teekkaris eagerly proved to me with this device their sober mind. 

In addition to the jäynähustle, there was also good cooperation between the Police College and Teekkari Village. Visits were made on both sides. Teekkari shooters practiced on the college's inner track. The police held their singing events, "rönkäisyt," in the Kaljakellari\* of Dipoli, and they also engaged in many sports. I do not know the extent to which the cooperation between teekkaris and the police works. However, I sincerely hope that the connecting bridges are not burned completely. The "by-product" of all playfulness and nonsense is the acquaintance of two groups of students preparing for entirely different life tasks. Indeed, such an interaction is also at the same time a single serum for a "disease," at least teekkaris claim to be easily infected - overspecialization. And so it is that law enforcement officers need technology and technocrats order to their circles.

\*Translator's remark: Kaljakellari = Beer Basement. Does not exist any longer in Dipoli."