


    
# 163. I Am The only Pilot In the World, Who Has Done It

My pilot's career, which culminated in the above statement, began in the summer of 1937 when I ended up at Jämijärvi Gliding School as an office secretary and an accountant of the logbook. The school's rector, flight captain Toivo B. Nissinen then paid attention to my head's aerodynamic shape and wing-shaped ears. He even downright forced me to participate in the A-course of gliding. With the matter mentioned above of forms and controlling my steel nerves, I completed the course by flying a breathtaking 37-second long straight glide from the ridge's top-down to the field. Like a comet, I plunged in my pilot career upwards, and already at the end of the same summer, it was the turn of the B-certificate Nr 170/37. B-certificate required a grand five flight's performance, each of which lasted one minute. I made all the great performance flights on a german Grunau-9 aircraft.
The said aircraft ahead of its time in terms of air conditioning. You see, in that aircraft, the fliers sat on top of some kind of pole. The lefts hang stylishly on both sides. The A-performance was started with a rubber rope from the top of the ridge. For the B-performance, the aircraft was toweled into the air. This was done with an impossibly long steel wire which was attached to a steel coil. The coil was attached to a convertible, which itself was lifted on top of a stand. The wire coiled up around the steel coil and dragged the aircraft into the air. Once the glider reached 100 meters in height, the teacher was in the tow truck gave a flag signal to the flier. After seeing the flag signal, the pilot bravely detached himself from the wire and glided to the ground.

I did not become a war pilot because the Finnish Air Force did not have the aforementioned Grunau-9 aircraft during both wars\* in combat use. Instead, I had to settle for "bustle non-commissioned officer's" maintenance tasks having my feet solidly grounded.\*\* At the end of the Continuation War, I was then commanded from the Air Force Headquarters to my "civilian workplace" in Jämijärvi. Then I was able to complete the C-degree in gliding. In my case, the C-degree consisted of three performances with aircraft toweling and two with hand start. This hand start bustle probably requires a little more clarification.

When the sufficiently strong wind blew against the highest hillslope of Jämi, i.e., the third slope, it turned upwards due to the hill's shape. The wind then continued in this direction, yet a few meters after the slope ended. Then the aircrafts were dragged to the top of the hill. The pilots roped themselves to the planes, and the tip was turned against the direction of the wind. Then the teacher simply the said aircraft with a favorable current contribution to the air at eye level. When the student gave the signal, the teacher took his grip off and started the stopwatch. If the student could keep the aircraft at least five minutes above the start point, the performance was accepted as a C-performance. I succeeded twice; the first was 5 minutes 20 seconds long, and the second performance was 5 minutes and 25 seconds long.  When I was later dragged into the sky three times no less than at the tail of the motor machine, I got the immeasurable honor of joining the legendary C-pilots. To my chest was jabbed a badge that had three seagulls in it.

All the rambled above is the mandatory prologue for that which follows now. The Polytechnic Aviation Club (Polyteknikkojen Ilmailukerho, PIK) had somehow found out about the brave pilot career. So, in their -87 summer meeting, they decided that IT MUST END - MY PILOT CAREER, THAT IS.

I received a clear five-word\* message from PIK: "YOU WILL BE AT RÄYSKÄLÄ AIRFIELD AT JAAKKO'S DAY AT 14.00". Having served for seven calendar years in the Air Force, I immediately understood that a command is a command without the right of appeal. And once again, coincidence became involved with this operation. My older son Pentti, who was bitten by a flight fly as he was born in Jämijärvi "and nearly to the airfield" had just completed and to flight condition his two-seated experimental helicopter OH-XHX.

We flew from Nummela Airfield to Räyskälä, scheduling this so that we were precisely at 14.00 according to the order. We heard from the radio the order of the air traffic control, which commanded us to attempt to land at the field at the EASTERN END OF THE RED CARPET. This thoughtfulness of PIK greatly emotionally touched me. But then THE CARPET ITSELF was emotionally touched - or moved, to be more precise. When the landing chopper's airflow hit the carpet, it flew handsomely a few meters away in front of the PIK reception committee. Watching how the PIK members frolicked in their pure white overalls after that red carpet was mind-elevating. In the end, the carpet was then caught and returned to its place of honor. And now I prove the title statement to be true. At the other end of the red carpet was waiting for a two-seated power sailplane. I was told to step along that carpet directly to the front of the sailplane. I did as ordered, and that is how I became THE ONLY PILOT IN THE WORLD WHO HAS MOVED FROM A HELICOPTER TO A SAILPLANE WITHOUT STEPPING A STEP ON THE GROUND. THIS IS HOW PIK HAD COMMANDED, AND THAT IS WHAT HAPPENED. WITHOUT THE CARPET, THE RECORD WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN DONE.

From the tip of the glider, a rope led to the motor machine waiting at the field. Behind me sat the PIK's heard training officer, and in a moment, we flew like a first glider Ikaros of Greek mythology to the blue sky. However, we did not attempt to get so close to the sun as Ikaros. Still, we landed after a short "CONCLUSION FLIGHT" nearly precisely back to the original starting point. In the name of the truth, however, I must now say that the starting and landing took place with the help of the experienced primary pilot's hand and feet. So I was just freight. But it was terrific.

The event then continued near the beach sauna of Marski's hut, located next to Pikku-Punelia lake. PIK had organized, besides sweet steam vapor, also a brilliant picnic service. The "main course" was an almost one-meter-long salmon sandwich. Remembering the old Swedish proverb, "Delad glädje är dubbelt glädje" I did not eat it alone. Instead, I cut it into several pieces according to Servi's Maija's instructions. And each PIK member received their own piece. It was really a fantastic sandwich.

After steam vapors, swimming, and teekkari songs came the second ceremony of the event. I was then instructed in honor of Jaakko's day\*\*\*\* to throw a cold stone to the lake. A bunch of three bricks was brought out of somewhere. The bricks were tied together with iron wire. I carried the bundle of stones to the swimming pier, reciting some ancient Finnish spells, and then threw the bundle to the lake. Once again, surprise, surprise. Instead of water becoming even a little bit colder - it started to boil. Mighty fuzz was heard, the bottom of the lake stirred like a porridge cauldron, and a thick cloud of steam covered the area. The jäynä was that the middle rick was a brick-shaped carbonic acid ice chunk. The impression was incredible. Autumn got permission to come. The cold stone had been thrown, and this time by PIK.

The last ceremony of the event was that I handed to PIK to archive the aforementioned copies of A, B, and C gliding certificates. Besides, I donated mainly for educational purposes three (3) YO-YOs.  As the unique evening began to dim, I thanked PIK members for a great show and climbed my son's helicopter. Then, together, we flew back to Nummela. After returning home to Tapiola, I first sat down next to my typewriter, and I wrote a thank you letter to PIK. Let this ramble end with a copy of that letter.

```
In Tapiola, on Jaakko's Day 1987.

Honorable PIK.
Please publish this letter at the next PIK meeting. The special event you organized for me, which started today at 2 PM at Räyskälä airfield, surpassed really plenty of all my preconceived wishes. Once again, I was delighted to say that they always do it to a T when teekkaris set about to a jäynä.

The fact that the red carpet you spread for my honor swung out of place during the landing done with by son Pentti was not the fault of PIK but of my said son. He didn't have to land so close to the carpet. My old colleague, and a really valuable towing mole for PIK, Tauno Haavisto, went with nearly an accuracy of almost a second to tow. He performed the task with commendable skill. The deputy driver who was on the glider, I must also give a full ten, though, at one point, he apparently slipped his hand from the rod. As the horizon from the height of my eyes suddenly disappeared down. However, it returned via my scruff.

As for the sitsit at Marski's Hut, I can only assure you that I have never eaten such a big salmon sandwich at the beach of such a small lake. Also, another entertainment was "über alles in der Welt." I guess Tauno Haavisto was once again involved in this. Throwing that really cold stone to the lake affected the whole of Southern Finland immediately because now, at 22.15 here at Tapiola, the sky is covered by black clouds. It is raining. By the way, it was the first time during my short life that I got two different oxides at the same time, in the lake carbon dioxide and in the steam room carbon monoxide.

As it can be clearly seen from the three gliding certificate copies that I have given to you, my gliding career's first 50 years have now ended. But through a strange coincidence, another similar period began. This means that I will still, in the role of a perpetual member, observe your activities both at the field, at the university, and in the dump of five.

I am ready to come to a meeting to ramble about my grass root-level memories from the early days of Jämi gliding school with great pleasure.

Thanks again for your today's true-jäynä and all the best for PIK's activities.
OTA-OSSI
```

\*Translator's remark: Ossi Törrönen refers to Winter War 1939-1940 and Continuation War 1941-1944.

\*\*Translator's remark: once again, this is a pun from Ossi.

\*\*\*Translator's remark: the original message can be considered as a five-word message; "OLET RÄYSKÄLÄN KENTÄLLÄ JAAKON PÄIVÄNÄ KLO 14.00".

\*\*\*\*Translator's remark: Jaakko's Day is on July 25th."
