
By the way, before this inauguration day, an event happened that convincingly proved to me what the teekkaris are capable of when they take their fingers out with a strong will. So it was the day before the inauguration day, and in front of Servin Mökki stood a great restaurant bunkhouse of the construction site in all its ugliness. By its size, it was for one hundred workers with its kitchen and stock. That's when the then castle warden host (Olli Mykkänen - Kalle Gnszauga - Ilpo V. Salmi) suddenly got an idea that the bunkhouse does not suit the landscape. Then Ilpo V. Salmi came to my office and asked what I think of disposing the bunkhouse out of the inauguration picture. I tried in my amazement to stutter, that "dear brother, the feast is already tomorrow, and the bunkhouse is yet in restaurant usage, etc. There are dozens of truckloads alone." Ilpo said that the castle warden host was precisely aware of this. Still, they nevertheless stood their pat that the bunkhouse must be removed. When I yet dared to mention that only a magician could, with some "sims ala bim" method, make the bunkhouse disappear overnight, the above warden mentioned above left. He returned one hour later, holding a checkered sheet of paper. The paper had the text: "We, who have signed this paper, will not rest for a moment until the bunkhouse which is in the middle of Teekkari Village has completely disappeared from the landscape." Below were several dozens of names of the villagers. What else could I say but somehow plagiarize Pontius Pilatus and exist stage front right.

At that moment, a fierce hubbub began. The bunkhouse's roof titles began to fall - some teekkaris carried dishes and other stuff to Servin Mökki. Electricity and HVAC networks disappeared in less than a unit of time. Simultaneously, a column of trucks began to arrive, ready to take the parts of the bunkhouse to their new place somewhere in Malmi. By the way, the cars in question had been scraped up already before the negotiations.

Then for the whole night, I heard the terrific noise of demolition. When when I, with my bleary eyes, filtered out in the morning, I encountered a sight that really was both surprising and pleasant. There was no sign of the bunkhouse left. In place of it was only a tiny campfire that a lonely teekkari roiled with a concrete crowbar. The teekkaris had done what they had promised to me. The landscape was beautified for the inauguration."