
Once Teekkari Village's specially trained strike team "with a stable mind and intention to steal" trespassed to Police College's gym. They managed to evacuate from the gym a large wooden jumping board. This trophy was then nailed to the facade of TKY 3 on the third floor. This was done with the help of a ladder car borrowed from Tapiolan Lämpö Oy. The jumping board got to be there at heights for a surprisingly long time. Finally, one night the Police College students made in a large number a raid on the scene and, with the ladder car of the Emergency Services Academy, retook possession of the springboard. We went after some time with the whole Castle Warden Host to an "official visit," invited by the rector of the Police College, Viljo Eloranta. At that time, our official car was that world-famous fire truck "SUIHKU-SIWIÄ." Once the audience was over and we stepped out, accompanied by a Police Counselor, we noted the disappearance of SIWIÄ. Guessing the origin of the usurpers, I was able to whisper to the castle wardens instructions. When I shouted "now," the teekkaris rushed to Police Counselor, and we dragged him towards Teekkari Village. Soon the college peace negotiators ran after us and suggested a tradeoff. When we didn't come up with any use for a police counselor in Teekkari Village, we eventually agreed to the police's proposal and exchanged counselor for SUIHKU-SIWIÄ. The police officers had carried the fire truck up the stairs to the second floor of their dormitory."