


    
# 33. The U.S. Football Team At Rantasauna

After the Olympics, almost all foreign sports teams lived in Helsinki during the summer while visiting Otaniemi. So I remember a case from Rantasauna in Teekkari Village. It was the end of August, and the U.S. football team was on its way to the Soviet Union, living for a day in Teekkari Village. The then coach of the Football Association of Finland, Aatos Lehtinen, had ordered Rantasauna for the team for one evening. He asked me to be a "sauna host." Unfortunately, this fall summer's evening happened to be very chilly and rainy. The whole group, including Aatos and me, sat on benches in 100 Celcius degrees heat, which the Yankees considered horrifying.

I then said, "in my fluent American language," that "according to the ancient Finnish sauna tradition, we will all go swimming now." So Lehtonen and I ran to the pier, and in this first round, we got only two Yankees running after us into the sea. Then we went back to the sauna. These two brave explained how refreshing and pleasant that swimming was back to the sauna and there with great passion. These harangues made an impact. After the following water tossings and steam vapors, the entire U.S. team ran to the pier into the sea, each in its own style. Quick soon, one after another, then got up back to the dock, except for the one who did not seem to be in any hurry at all. From that muddy, cold waters of Laajalahti, he appeared from time to time, his right hand up like back in the day in the same manner as a German leader used to do.
Then the word "Help" came out of his mouth, and he sank back underwater. At first, everyone thought it was just some joke show, but the "show" did not end. Eventually, 2-3 of his friends jumped into the water and dragged the help-shouter back to the pier. And now, the whole story became clear. His hand was still upright, and the guy moaned in pain. We carried him quickly to the sauna, where the team's doctor mangled the man's hand back into its correct position. At some point, the scapula had been somehow kicked to a skewed position. And now, as he went into the cold water and made a too-sudden swimming motion, the hand went out of place and stood in upwards position. The man said that it had also happened before. Well. Doctor massaged, and then the Finnish sauna was let do its magic with steam vapors from water tossing to the stove. The man was soon in his former condition, except that he was now one Finnish sauna ritual richer."
