
It had been three years and eight months since establishing the first design committee of DIPOLI (13.5.1963). The project had finally progressed so far that the trees' felling on the plot could take place. The entire Police College's student body arrived to work, and naturally, there were hundreds of teekkaris. Seven chainsaws were ready in the hands of "teekkari lumberjacks" in more or less skillful hands. The starting bang was heard, the chainsaws were started, and then a miracle happened. A miracle was that none of those voluntary workers died, was injured, nor came to hit with wood.\* The mentioned seven lumberjacks established themselves around the plot among the other hundred voluntary workers. Then handsome pine trees and birches began to fall at an increasing pace in all known directions of the air. The rumble of chainsaws, screams, and the noise was deafening. Mainly on the shoulders of strong police officer students, logs moved into stacks to the plot's edge. And thanks to truly miraculous luck, each volunteer worker was able to move on their own feet to the voluntary work feast. But - leaving the feast with one's feet in the wee hours caused some people physical difficulties. You see, not everyone agreed to use the shortest straight route from Servin Mökki's door to their own home. Instead, they performed the most original choreographic jumps, crawlings, and falls during the trip.

After verifying this, Kauko Katila, the head of the police students, commanded his troops to follow him in a goose march. For safety, the following was done along a dry ditch that was next to the road. The reason for the feast's ending was, as it can be usually said - a human error. Servi's Maija, who everyone loved, had put such amounts of malt, sugar, and yeast to the home-brew vats that the result was worth the feast according to her oral statement. And it was.

\*Translator's remark: This is a wordplay of the Finnish idiom "olla puulla päähän lyöty," which means "be hit with wood." This idiom means confused and/or dizzy."