
The first bus that handled traffic from Hietalahti Square\*\* to Otaniemi was called Sulo Riento Liukas\*. On both sides of the bus were painted large, full bus' length teekkari figures, holding with tooth and nail to the car's front doors and thus supposedly staying in the way. And yes, in practice, it was a bit similar. When Sulo Riento arrived in the middle of Teekkari Village, an incredible number of teekkaris came home. The same number began to rush in to get to the university, which functioned at Hietalahti Square or just otherwise to Helsinki.\*\*\* The pressure and compression were enormous, but the other bus came in time if one did not fit in. The incredible fame and popularity of teekkaris were achieved by a driver whose name very soon became Fangio. No other name was used for him. I never heard his real name, either. The nickname probably already told the reason for Fangio's popularity. No one has ever driven the overcrowded Sulo Riento Liukas bus between Otaniemi and Hietalahti Square as fast and at the feeling of safety as Fangio.  Teekkaris' relatives, who were for the first time on this ride arriving in the village for a visit, were almost in the grip of death when Fangio would shoot that 8-kilometer route in less than a unit of time.

\*Translator's remark: the name is a playful pun. When translated literally, it stands for "Sweet Haste Slippery."

\*\*Translator's remark: Before moving to Espoo, the University of Technology was located at Hietalahti Square in Helsinki.

\*\*\*Translator's remark: Originally, the word used was "Stadi," a Finnish slang term for Helsinki."