
In due course, we heard the horrible news that a police school was planned for the Otaniemi area. We warmed up our Rantasauna and invited the highest police leadership in our country to our "enquiring event" to prevent such horrific a piece of news. When we were bathing in the sauna, we then asked our guests regarding the Police College. Then the high-ranked police lords said several committees have been looking for a place for the police school. However, as good a training area as Otaniemi has not really been found anywhere else in our country. And so we then, with relentless minds, observed the construction of the Police College\* into our neighborhood. And then came the day when the whole Police College marched in corpore via Kuusisaari and Lehtisaari towards Otaniemi. In front of the marchers went their own marching band led by Georg Malmsen; in other words, as we all know him, "Molli Jori." As our last desperate defense attempt, we teekkaris occupied the Otaniemi bridge. We installed ropes and other barricades across it.  Our brave resistance caused at least that much that the then head of the school, Police Counselor Jotuni, solemnly promised in front of his troops that they will first and foremost respect Otaniemi's constitution which has been in effect from time immemorial. Only when these laws fail, Jotuni resorts to "the articles drawn up by national instances." We believed in this assurance and deconstructed the barricades. Then two hundred blue jacketed police students marched, flags fluttering, to our beloved headland as the tassel people observed this invasion.

And we did not have to wait long when it already began to happen. The hardworking hostess of our Rantasauna, Mrs. Määttänen, called me one early morning from sauna me. She told me with a shaky voice that Rantasauna had been broken into. I took the cal. 7.65 Smith Wesson with me, which I had received from the lensmann and went to the scene, Teuvo Tujunen as side support. The sight was somewhat unusual. Windows were open, and items of furniture were all over the place. On the walls hung - by no means fingerprints but facsimile prints of the most diverse parts and organs of humans. It was apparently done as follows: the parts and organs were first dipped into a stamp color and then printed on paper. As we stood stunned, soon howling of a siren was heard, and a black police car arrived at the beach. Like on official duty, the police, lead by senior lecturer Kauko Katila, rushed in and asked what had happened. But then I, in turn, asked what this really about and who had alarmed them. It was then when they got flour in their moth. The situation was clear. The criminals had returned to the crime scene. I said on behalf of the tassel people a prophetic greeting: "Dear police. While I thank you for this uninvited visit, I would like to underline that the gentlemen certainly had no idea what kind of beehive did they just grub. In this context, a quote from RWBK's collection of aphorisms will probably suffice: "You'll hear from the bottom, said the one who made stuff into the horn."\*\* However, in the name of the truth, it must be emphasized that nothing had been lost from the sauna. Quite the opposite, the intruders had installed handsome reindeer horns on the back wall. A silver plate was attached with engraving: "Greetings to teekkaris from the Police College student body." It is probably the first time in Finnish crime history that some break in to bring something. From this moment began the jäynä-spirited competition between Teekkari Village and Police College, which I will tell you later about several times.

The attack was responded to by an attack on both sides. Naturally, to counter a good idea, a better counter idea had to be invented. And everything always happened in the spirit of laid-back humor. The teekkaris changed, as did the courses of the Police College. But the jäynä tradition continued uninterrupted. After this "break-in-fuss," we did "an official friendship visit" to the College; before the visit, we bought a rubber police baton from a store, which we split. We gave the other half to the College. We promised to give the other half once we became convinced of the police's ability to maintain order alone. The police attached this half of the baton to an oak base and hung it handsomely to the College's lower lobby's wall. It is probably still there.

As our first counterattack, we decided to do stealing on Police College. According to our plan, we then one evening marched as a small crowd directly inside. Our intention was to brazenly continue to the second floor's teaching material storage, take something from there, and fade away. But to our bad luck, the then chairman of the College's student body was happened to be at the lower lobby, rejoiced greatly of our arrival, and directed us to drink coffee. He said he was just about to go to Teekkari Village to invite us to the Lauttasaari's Police Cottage. He was happy to deliver the invitation at that moment. Well, all we could do was thank him for the coffee and leave with dignity from the main door.

Around the corner, we held a war negotiation and decided to try again from the back door. We did this, and when we got inside the faculty hall, there were many senior officers' caps. We grabbed a few of them and disappeared. None of the folks of the house noticed anything. We took the caps to a paid safe and took the key. When the joyful sauna sitsit at the Lauttasaari hut ended, as we were leaving, we asked for official assistance from the present police "in solving a mysterious key riddle, which we teekkaris have tried to solve for a long time." We handed over the key and left. One of us teekkaris was still so absent-minded that for some reason, a small person scale which was in the hallway of the sauna was put into a jacket. We donated this person scale on the next student body of the Police College in a student sauna, where we did not found such a thing to be already.

When it comes to the requested official help, as we had left the place rushed the mysterious key we had given to a crime investigation unit's officer, who quite soon found out the key's origin. The content of that safe was some kind of surprise to them - six handsome police caps. The craziest thing about the case, in the end, was that reportedly no one had noticed the disappearance of the caps before a patrol unit of the police's crime investigation returned those - how true this is, that is hard to say. The disappearance of our gift scale was, however, noticed immediately by the hut's janitor. The janitor had with "brimstone-filled words" demanded the police college duty officer to find out the committed thefts which had taken place during the previous evening's visit. In the last scene of this play, the police college's representatives returned the just received scale back to Lauttasaari.

\*Translator's remark: The Otaniemi Police College was demolished in 2016. Nowadays, in its place are the AYY Kivimiehentie resident buildings.

\*\*Translators' remark: RWBK has their very own special teekkari humor. The original expression is: "Perästä kuluu, sanoi torveen tekijä.""