
---
title: Ossin Lässyt
author: Ossi Törrönen
---

    
# 102. Birth Of DIPOLIINA

This is how Dipoliina was born. It was sometime in the late 50s when we had invited a bunch of travel agency ringmasters to think of marketing Otaniemi as a summer hotel and congress center. We were thinking hard about some jäynä, with which we could get those gentlemen to react "to our cause sympathetically." It should have been something related to a sauna and going to a sauna. That's when Mrs. Eva Lange, who worked hard in the Teekkari Village's office, brought a Swedish women's magazine. It was advised in the magazine to make the world's most straightforward sauna clothing from terry. In Finnish, the manufacturing instructions were as follows: take two running meters of single-plated terrycloth. To its middle is cut an opening to the head, after which the fabric is put in half. The sides are knit together except for a 15 cm long spot at the tops of the seams. The garment is ready and works by pushing the head through the cut hole and upper limbs from the seamless openings. The "travelers" were overly fond of these outfits. Especially when at the end of the event, an unused one was pushed into everyone's armpit. Those were even wrapped with plastic film. Since then, this outfit was in use without exception in the Rauntasauna events. Those were of all colors. Once, the parliament's finance committee was there as a guest. Everyone was dressed for general joy with their political hue. When we heard that Police Commander Cabrielsson had married, he received a homecoming gift after a sauna sitsit. The offering consisted of a combination of blue and white sauna hoods knitted one side apart.  Well, what's in it. The host put the linen stock sewing machines to work, and robes emerged like from thin air. In one year, nearly 1,500 of them were completed. When the manufacturing cost was ten, we sold them with twenty, content with this modest 10% profit in favor of TKY. After the start of the DIPOLI fundraising, these sauna robes were christened DIPOLIINAs ("\*DIPOSCARF\*"). The relevant label with instructions for use was attached. Many construction companies and design offices bought them in bulk, distributing them to their customers, e.g., Christmas presents. I have found a cleaning company called DIPOLIINA to exist within the TKY's ever-swelling organization. It is the fault of the later times of idealists. It seems to be a good name when it qualifies as a "business name." However, it operates under TKY, and it is not an independent company. And the word DIPOLI or its derivatives can not be used by others other than TKY. That word and the trademark of DIPOLI were once officially registered to the Finnish Patent and Registration Office's trademark list. Just in case."
