
---
title: Ossin Lässyt
author: Ossi Törrönen
---

    
# 68. I Turn 50 Years

What I am trying to say now is the absolute climax of my life so far. And I guess it is going to remain as that regardless of the length of my remaining hike. If, after all, real teekkari spirit is used as the benchmark. And this climax was 2.4.1965. The day I turned half a century. The day was immediately from the early morning one rigmarole. All the time, greetings, telegrams, flowers arrived, and the telephone rang non-stop. I was congratulated, inter alia, by the rector of TKK, VT's chief director, the large delegation of the Police College and the Department of Geology, and the Otaniemi Sports Foundation representatives. In this context, I will not begin to list the guests and friends from "elsewhere of Finland." However, they were all equally pleasing to me and warmed my heart.

Around noon the castle warden host came. They brought as their (and as villagers') precious gift a magnificent Norris narrow-film projector to complete my narrow-filming hobby equipment. Next, a large delegation of the TKY's staff arrived. They brought as their gift an Adler typewriter supplemented with a silver brass. The board of TKY also came in corpore, handing me a Tandberg stereo tape recorder, by far the best on the market. This device then made it possible to sync audio to my movies as well. The "Cavemen" also arrived, bringing me a stone anchor weighing about 40 kilograms. I was in the full sense of the word "exhausted by happiness" due to these tributes and gifts. I really could not imagine getting so much attention. When the world-famous horn association RWBK had also stopped by and done their musical salute at the evening dusk, I was already planning to go to sleep.

BUT. That's when the world war broke out. At least that's how I felt. Suddenly from outside of my apartment began to sound a huge artillery concentration, accompanied by the uninterrupted noise of machine guns, the roar of planes, the explosions of falling bombs, and the whistling how of overflying grenades. The windows and the whole building shook. We lived in Teekkari Village's maintenance building's fourth, that is, the top floor. I was afraid the entire building would sink into a pile. This was followed by one very huge explosion sound. The balcony door flew open. From 1 square meter-sized balcony stepped in a delegation, consisting of 17 persons of then and former castle wardens. How they had gotten to the balcony on the fourth floor and how 17 of them fit into 1 square meter will be found later. With a solemn speech, this delegation handed me the Teekkari Village's emperor key. The key is a magnification of a standard Abloy key, made of brass and its total length is about 0.5 meters. The key has chains attached to it. To it was also attached a separate brass plate with engraved "easily understandable" text. The engraved text was the following: "The master key to Teekkari Village's disorders' organizing, organized for the master of disorder, to Ossi who turns 25 for the second time 1965. Teekkari Village's castle wardens." In their handover speech, the castle wardens ordered me to carry this key always on my neck as I move around the village on official duty. The delegation ate two layer cakes, got relevant champagne shots, and left.

And now a little bit of technical explanation of this visit. The castle warden reached the fourth floor's balcony straightforwardly. The official road, a descendable staircase, suitable for its dignity, was for a long time and throughout designed and built by the castle wardens. It was not until the H-moment that the staircase was leveraged in place. This is how the delegation, comprised of also teekkari girls, got safely from the roof to my balcony in a goose march. And those combat noises were really authentic. The guys had ordered a copy from YLE's sound archive. The copy included real-life situations of Winter War of the Summa\* battles recorded by frontline reporters. Those voices were simply "shot" towards my home with huge powerful amplifiers and speakers. The noise reportedly was audible even to the Police College. This tape is now in my home's treasure chamber. You are welcome to come to listen to it.

Well. These great jäynäs would have been enough for me. I really did not expect anything else than the "departure of the last guest" to sink to my bed in nirvana to revise in my mind the miraculous cases of the day. BUT- at about 21.30, the doorbell rang once more, I went to open it, and there stood a sobbing-looking first-year teekkari. Like a shy person rattling their word, they mumbled something like that when they had just come from Helsinki. They heard from the residents of their dormitory that I had a birthday. This teekkari then wanted with this modest and at the last minute to express their own congratulations. The teekkari then pulled a shabby little packet wrapped with newspaper and handed it to me, complaining that there was nothing more valuable than this "to this distress." For some reason, the teekkari told, having taken this from their childhood home when they left for Otaniemi to study. I opened the package, and it revealed A YOYO - that kind of a childish spinning top toy equipped with a rope that everyone very likely knows. Well, it really was a little bit maudlin gift. A YO-YO to me, who after all was the leader of Teekkari Village, teekkari h.c and currently turning the fifth decade of my life, which causes respect. However, I did not want to offend the giver's mind. So I thanked this teekkari with warm words by plagiarizing even a Biblical passage of the poor's money\*\* etc. I asked this sobbing teekkari to come in with encouraging and comforting words. I offered an obligatory champagne dose, coffee, a piece of cake, and then this teekkari left.

All these consolations should really have been left unsaid because precisely after one minute of the first teekkari's leaving, the doorbell rang again. A sobbing teekkari stepped in and told me about having heard in the village that I have a birthday. The teekkari said to me that they wanted to congratulate me. They did not invent anything else for this moment; this teekkari also wanted to give me this fun, playful thing YO-YO. I took the gift, and a thought came to my mind that it was a strange coincidence when two teekkaris, without knowing each other, end up giving the same type of gift. So I thanked this teekkari too with at least symbolical word twists and provided the above-mentioned supplies. Once again, the doorbell rang, a teekkari arrived, congratulated, gave a yo-yo, and left. Etc. And again, the doorbell rang, etc.

One by one arrived AT 1 MINUTE INTERVALS 399 teekkaris, each giving a speech and donating a yo-yo. And for everyone, I naturally had to provide a response speech. Well. During that evening and night, 399 yo-yo handover speeches were given, and as many response speeches were also presented. In total, 798 speeches. At the end of the event, there were 100 red, 100 blue, 100 yellow, and 99 green yo-yos on my apartment floor in the wee hours. Those covered about 10 m2 of my floor. That was quite a teekkarijäynä indeed. When it was all over, I sank in the full sense of the word to my bed, both physically and mentally exhausted, but at the same time so happily. I had experienced such moments of joy that only a true teekkari spirit can achieve. The yo-yos and the narrow-film (that was taken from the event) are in the pride of place in my home's jäynä archive, as well as the gift book related to the villager's projector gift. The gift book has 722 teekkaris' signatures.

\*Translator's remark: Summa was a locality in the Finnish Karelia province. Finland had to hand over the Karelian province to the Soviet Union after the Winter War.

\*\*Translator's remark: Ossi Törrönen refers to Gospel of Mark 12:41-44."
