
---
title: Ossin Lässyt
author: Ossi Törrönen
---

    
# 70. Teekkaris Carry Their Own Gate

Now I will copy here a legendary teekkari jäynä that happened long before the wars. It was convinced to me to be confirmed on the sauna benches of Teekkarri Village's Rantasauna by Otto Kosonen, the Deputy Chief of Police of Helsinki. He has been retired already for several years but was personally one of the "performers" of the actual play due to circumstances in his official duties as a young police constable.

Four teekkaris walked happily singing along Albertinkatu, heading to - nowhere else but the beloved Poli. They followed for a moment with a man of technology's expertise the demolition of a wooden house. They noticed a wooden gate that had already been removed, which laid there among the rest junk. They got an idea and asked to buy that gate. The construction supervisor who was leading the works was happy to get rid of that junk so easily. The price was even lower than reasonable. Teekkaris paid and took the gate on their shoulders, and continued their interrupted trek. The gate was left while reinforcing themselves in Pokeriboksi while making an entirely official and the most detailed bill of sale. In the bill of sale, the demolition site supervisor "sold and handed over all ownership to the general partnership formed by teekkaris A, B, C, and D to the wooden gate. Its dimensions, shapes, raw materials, and other technical and even architectural details are described separately in the appendix of the bill of sale". The four buyers put their signatures to the document and then back to Albertinkatu to get the seller's and two witnesses' signatures.

So much time had already passed in this that the evening began to approach. This just established "general partnership" took the gate back on its shoulders and headed with already wobbling steps along Lönnrotinkatu to downtown. As the company had assumed, the constantly vigilant police officers paid attention to this "Gate men's march"\*. And our heroes' journey ended in Heikinkatu (now Mannerheim). There the harsh grip of the law grabbed on both the men and the gate. Without any objections, the teekkaris followed the police until the third district. When the on-duty police sergeant then began to draw up an interrogation report on the "malicious theft of the gate and the resulting disorder on the street," the guys pulled out the bill of sale. They demanded an explanation according to which article of the law they were prevented from transferring the object they owned from point A to point B. The honored police sergeant, of course, knew no such article of law. He then had to apologize and escort the boys to the front door and to freedom. The gate again to the shoulders, and as tassels of the caps swung rhythmically, the quartet headed towards Aleksanterinkatu\*\*. That street was part of the first police district area and was under their observation. However, the third district duty officer called the first district and warned about the arriving teekkaris and their tricks. And in the first district, the duty officer was Otto Kosonen, mentioned at the beginning of the story as a young novice police officer. There were no walkie-talkies nor patrol cars equipped with walkie-talkies back then. As a result, no instructions were given to the police patrols in that area. Otto Kosonen was browsing fervently, browsing the duty room's statute books and other regulation books to be ready for the moment he knew that would come. And it came. The conscientious order patrol number 2 had caught the gate teekkaris Mikko and Aleksi to their "tender care" and dragged them to the first district duty room.

As his last resort, Kosonen had come to study the then rules and regulations of the City of Helsinki and - eureka. In an article of the regulations, it was mentioned that when the police authority has a reason to assume any movable property to become apparent at risk of loss or destruction, this property may be temporarily taken to the police control and supervision. On this basis, the gate was to be declared under temporary police surveillance, and the gentlemen teekkaris were ordered to leave the facility. But yet they achieved extra trouble for the law enforcement by demanding to themselves a literal seizure certificate. The gate's dimensions, shape, and other "important" aspects had to be carefully mentioned in the certificate. And so was one night again nearly passed. The teekkaris headed back to the cover of Poli's dark ceilings, and the police officer, along with Otto Kosonen, sighed with relief.

\*Translator's remark: A pun of and at the same a reference to "Porilaisten marssi," March of the Pori Regiment.

\*\*Translator's remark: Aleksanterinkatu continues all the way to the Senate Square, where is the famous Helsinki Cathedral."
