
---
title: Ossin Lässyt
author: Ossi Törrönen
---

    
# 8. Midsummer Celebrations

The Midsummer celebrations formed their own part in the short but more colorful history of Otaniemi's Teekkari Village. In co-operation with our neighbor Otaniemi Sports Foundation, these public events were organized five times in a row. The first was in the summer of -53. Architect teekkari Osmo Solansuu made a colorful column poster for the celebrations with the text "Juhannus - OTA - Niemessä." We were well aware that no posters are allowed to be placed on the roadsides and especially not on electric poles without official permission. Nevertheless, due to oversight, we distributed thousands of them in both Espoo and Helsinki.

The always vigilant then lensmann Kuno Ahlsted of the Espoo district immediately noticed our violation. He called me, requiring with the brimstone type of words to immediately remove those illegal posters from the roadsides of Espoo. I promised to send multiple patrols immediately for removal tasks. However, due to some human schedule error, the patrols only got off the ground after Midsummer. The Helsinki garrison was so sympathetic that it commanded the company's soldiers for two days to the camp in Otaniemi. One of the soldiers' tasks, among other things, was to build Europe's most enormous midsummer bonfire. And that's what it really became, a dizzyingly high bonfire, for which was collected all the combustible construction waste that was still in the Otaniemi area.

Our second effect was "a space rocket," which we announced to launch to the Earth-orbiting route on Midsummer night at 24.00. To the sea, twenty meters from the celebration beach, we had built a fixed raft. On that raft was standing a 9 meters high rocket made of shiny aluminum foil and ribs.

The program's course was then as follows: at 24.00, the travelers serviceman Teuvo Turunen and office assistant Eva Lange arrived on the scene. They were dressed in space suits (blue tracksuit + red swimming cap). Equipped with a helmet and submachine gun, the guard (janitor Määttänen) transported the couple to the raft, hurrying himself out in a boat about 10 meters away. The travelers climbed by using external stairs to the top of the rocket. Then they opened the door and faded in. The people started to hear from the speakers the countdown: 30...4,3,2,1,0.  At the moment zero, a huge boom was heard, fire and smoke covered the rocket and after a while from this flame sea surged a sparkling object into the sky.

When the fire and smoke then faded, there was nothing but that raft present. The technical implementation of the program was as follows. There was a boat extended from its back by a half a meter locker accessible only underwater. There was a man-opening in the middle of the raft just at the rocket. In the rocket, the stairs were also inside. After closing the visible door of the "rocket," the passengers climbed down the inner ladder. They slipped from the hole under the water and dived into the extended part of the boat that was waiting at the agreed location. After that, the boat, in all peace, disappeared into the reeds. The rocket itself was equipped with many firebombs and smoke bombs with electrical blasting caps and one enormous air rocket. Only after the event did "the frog arrive in my throat" when I wondered what danger the "space travelers" really were. Teuvo Turunen's explicit additional task was to splash the bucket of gasoline inside the rocket, around the walls, while he was the last to climb the ladders down. Thus, rapid ignition and complete burning were achieved. By pressing the button, the 30 firecrackers started to burn. But when I saw that the "guard" Määttänen raised the oar for a moment, the worry was gone.

It should also be mentioned that I had rain insured this first Midsummer celebration for the value of the old million marks. According to the contract, it should have rained at least 2 mm between 18.00 and 20.00. It rained really hard all day, but during that official time, it rained only 1.8 millimeters. So, unfortunately, that millimeters was two-tenths of a millimeter away. But the crowd was huge, about 15,000 people were present. So the profits were quite good. Unfortunately, this vast audience messed up our organization badly. When the thunder yet broke our amplifier system, there was no sound in this large outdoor area. As a result, the audience did not really like this first Midsummer of Otaniemi. This backfired the following summer when only about 5,000 people came. We had now sacrificed a great deal for the brilliant program and the perfectly functioning "technology." Unfortunately, we now suffered a financial loss of the same magnitude as our profit from the previous year. The attraction of this second Midsummer was then the "atomic bonfire."
About a 10-meter triangle tower, which consisted of water pipes, was built into the sea. Along one foot of the tower, gasoline was lead to the top of the triangle, which had an ordinary park irrigator. A pressure-resistant hose then ran along the seabed to the reed, where was a 300-liter tank full of gasoline. The tank was borrowed from Huber. Next to it was then a pressure tank containing nitrogen. The system also included three steel wires tightened in different directions from the top of the triangle tower to the reeds.  At the bottom of the steel wires were rockets that functioned on electric ignition. When the H-hour came, I once again read the countdown numbers 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0 into the microphone. When I had counted to 3, the repairman Martti Turunen opened the tap of the nitrogen tank. From the tank, the gasoline then rushed to the sprinkler, making it to spin rapidly. At the moment 0, I pressed the button - three rockets surged towards the top of the tower, the petrol in the air caught fire. Also, when the sprinkler was constantly feeding new stuff, there were about ten cubic meter-sized fireballs for a moment in the air. The fireball really looked like a miniature atomic bomb. Those 300 liters of gasoline burned in a few minutes, but the sight was also so handsome that the audience spontaneously gave roaring applause to our bonfire.

At the 1955 Midsummer celebration, we progressed so far in technology that we received a flying saucer from space. Sixteen weather observation balls with a lifting force of 1.5 kg each. These weather observation balls were attached to a large aluminum rim with a diameter of about 6 m. It was upholstered on the underside with gauze, and the gauze itself was painted with "space-themed patterns." There were also two sets of lamps mounted on the rim. The first lamp set was a standard lamp set that worked on 200 V luminous flux. The second lamp set was powered by the lower-voltage battery pack, which was included in the set. This structure was attached to many hundreds' long strong power line wire in the middle of an offshore ferry, which was built already in 1963. The ferry had a slipping belt pulley, of which that wire rope ran beneath the sea to a hand-twisted winding winch hidden among the reed field. The gizmo was for the early evening hidden under a tarpaulin. There were also pre-recorded creepy yelping space sounds on the magnetic recording tape. Half an hour before the performance, the servicemen Turunen and Tienvieri, in all silence of twilight, sent our flying saucer to a height of many hundred meters above Otaniemi.

At midnight an announcement was then announced in a wobbling voice to a multi-thousand strong audience celebrating inside the sports hall that they have received surprising information. According to this incredible information, an unknown flashing round object appears above the area. The audience was prompted to exit peacefully outdoors "for all certainty." And there, that flying source of ours was flashing in the dark sky. It flashed in precisely the same rhythm as I pressed the power line switch in the "direction of artillery fire car." The blinking naturally followed the rhythm of the carefully recorded space noise. At the same time, the servicemen were reeling the saucer down in the reed mud.

At this point, everything went to plan except that the wind pressed the device in the direction of Munkkiniemi. The wind push was so strong that an edge of the angle iron on the ferry cut the insulation away from the pair of electrical wires as the men reeled in. On top of all that, the winding machine got stuck there in the reeds. As a result, the men had to pull the wire cord with their bare hands. Unaware of all this, I just pressed the flash switch as the howl kept accelerating in the loudspeakers. Whenever I pressed, the light on the plate came on. Still, at the same time, the scrupulous servicemen received in the reed received severe electric shocks.

Cursing and biting their teeth, they later said, despite everything they had dragged, knowing that if they gave up, then the whole show is ruined. And so the "vessel" landed on the ferry, the hatch opened and a strangely dressed "moon dweller" came out. He was then rowed ashore on the dock for a "reporter" interview. Now, however, a surprising incident happened. A man rushed out of the crowd, pushed away the guard sitting in the boat, jumped into the boat, rowed to the ferry, and rushed inside the flying saucer through the hatch. After a while, the saucer detached and set off in the direction of Munkkiniemi. The lights did not blink anymore but were constantly on. At Munkkiniemi, the flying saucer must have been at the height of 2,000 meters. Soon, it disappeared entirely and permanently to the sky.

This show's technical performance was that we had built a watertight box in the middle of that raft, where one person fit well. There went our "moon man" into hiding well in advance of the show. When the saucer was then down, he crawled out of the box to the saucer's door and for people to see. Similarly, that space-seeking inhabitant of the Earth went in through the dish door. Then he landed in the box mentioned above, switched on the device's own battery light, and simply cut off with strong pliers the electric wire, which kept the device at its place. The hydrogen balloons then took care of the rest, raising our saucer to be carried permanently away by the wind.

On Midsummer -66, we again towed the "Amon Ra" sun ship past the shore with a long wire, where the singing ensemble "Kylänpojat"\* presented a sacrificial song prepared for the event. The music had been the sacrificial song of the court of Ramses II. Quite qualified looking "slave musicians" were in the ship the black teekkaris Brahnu and Zhemalis of Ethiopia. They were studying at TKK at the time. There was no other perturbation in the program except the "Ramses II sarcophagus." The sarcophagus stood in the middle of the ship. Inside the coffin was Ramses II's mummified body, i.e., the serviceman Martti Turunen carefully wrapped in toilet paper. His task was to kick the box lid off and step on the ship at a specific moment when the vessel bypassed the audience. For him, it was necessary to see the point where this was supposed to happen. I had drilled an inch hole in the cover precisely at the height of eyes for this purpose. As an "impressive effect," in front of the sarcophagus was put about one kilogram of magnesium powder and an electric cap. Turunen himself held the trigger switch in his hand. When the sun ship was at the agreed point, Turunen stared through the sight hole mentioned above with both eyes and - pressed the button.

An insanely bright light flashed from the ship and right in front of the eyes of Turunen. For a moment, completely blinded, Turunen kicked the lid out of its way. Then he wandered about really showy, looking showy in the full sense of the word, along the deck of the ship. He did not see anything. The paper wrappers just kept dropping along the deck. Only about an hour later, Martti Turunen "got his normal sight back" and later, being heard on the matter that "it was, by the way, a really bright flash."

In -57, we organized yet one Midsummer celebration, but after that, we quit because the financial result did not match expectations. TKY and Sports Foundation received two to three hundred thousand old marks, as a result, of five years Midsummer Bustle. Hiring the staff was always a considerable financial burden, as the teekkaris were away from Otaniemi. No voluntary slave labor was thus available.

\*Translator's remark: "Kylänpojat", written separately "Kylän pojat", means "Boys of the [Teekkari] Village"."
