


    
# 150. Inauguration Of The New Rantasauna 29.3.1985. MY SPEECH

In the beginning, Otaniemi was desolate and empty. Deer, foxes, and other forest creatures ruled here sovereignly. There was no sign of humanity other than the tomb, which is in front of TKY III, of the Early Teekkari's tomb from the Stone Age. However, even that tomb was covered by 5,000-year-old moss.

Then time shifted to 1950. Spring came, May came, and the 13th day. On that memorable day, an order came from the Jämeräbearded Engineer - NOW. The sky flashed, and the ground shook as the huge opening boom of Teekkari Village's construction rushed along Otaniemi's then so virgin hills, valleys and beaches.

On that day started precisely to the date the first construction phase, which lasted for two years. During that time, TKY III, IV, and V, Servin Mökki, and the first Rantasauna of the Village were completed. It rose over that spot to that last HOAS building to its noble loneliness. And Canadian teekkaris from the University of Toronto was also building that first beach sauna. They had as their excursion leader professor Nicolas Ingnatjeff. On 13.5.1952, the tassel people were for the first time in corpore in Otaniemi, when the village was inaugurated by the President of the Republic Juho Kustaa Paasikivi.

Then came summer and the Olympics, and Teekkari Village got to its first guests 1,500 foreign athletes. During the Games, a moment of glory came to our beach sauna when the Dukes of Edinburg and Kent visited there, inaugurating it ceremonially for use as a monument to the Finnish-Canadian teekkari friendship. And so began the first Rantasauna's only two decades lasting but even more active term. Countless were those teekkaris of the street, TKY's boards', councils,' guilds' and free associations' sauna evenings when happy teekkari singing roared from the sauna headland along Laajalahti often all the way to our harbor city Helsinki. If teekkari passed the exams or once and for all graduated or diligently was about to get married, then the Rantasauna was by itself a prominent place for such a celebration.
And on the other hand, if to TKY's sky started to pile up financial or organizational challenges anticipating clouds,  both advisors, friends, and supporters were invited to our beloved Rantasauna. There were as teekkaris' guests when the members of the honorary delegation, when the rector of our university and other professorship, when the governing bodies of the municipality of Espoo, Members of Parliament or current ministers. And there in the sauna's body and mind softening sweet steam vapors were the often challenging problems solved. And specifically, whenever the Jämeräbearded Engineeer noted that the moment had come for the Escapade. Then Jämerä named his headquarters, invited it to the Rantasauna and soon from there echoed to teekkaris Jämerä's absolute order to start real action for something.

For one decade, the teekkaris have been without their own think tank, without a decent beach sauna. Those have been flawed times in teekkari life. A fortiori our joy shall be more remarkable when we can be involved and opening for use the teekkaris' brand new second beach sauna. This is a happy birthday. The birth pains are behind, and the newcomer is doing well. May this second beach sauna become at least as good a sitsit place as its predecessor was, to which every teekkari always returns with joy. And let there be the same legendary real teekkari spirit in this sauna, which also prevailed in its predecessor there two hundred meters away.

"Men sana in corpore sano-Healthy soul in a healthy body," - said the ancient Romans. As a motto related to this new beach sauna, I would like to translate into Finnish that ancient phrase to be "In a refreshed body germinates more refreshed thoughts." May never from the sauna stove of this Rantasauna never run out good teekkarilöyly, *never while the sunshine brightens, never while the moonlight glimmers*" \*.

\*Translator's remark: "never while the sunshine brightens, never while the moonlight glimmers" is from the 10th poem of Kalevala, in Finnish: "ilmoisna ikänä - kuuna kullan valkeana.""
