


    
# 32. Olympic Summer 1952

When the semester at TKK ended at the end of May, and the new one did not start until September, most of Teekkari Village's teekkaris disappeared to their practice jobs. Only two hundred teekkaris with families and those working in the Helsinki area remained as summer residents of the village. They were transferred together to a castle. The rest became available for congress and hotel use. In the first summer of 1952, however, no one remained. TKY had rented the whole village, except the Rantasauna, to the Olympic Committee for athletes' accommodation. And then there were a lot of them. At best, more than 1,500 athletes from the Soviet Union and also from other Eastern European countries. The Chinese teams were also accommodated in Otaniemi. Work was done "keep your nose to the grindstone" and on average 24-hour shifts, that everything was ready for the Olympic guests.

The Teekkari construction committee yet existed. It received as completely extra assignments to organize the following little tasks: for the Soviet Union's 660 people sports team was set up in four weeks their own perfect restaurant hall and electric kitchen in the Sports Hall's unfinished tennis hall. The kitchen floor was raised almost a meter higher than other parts to bring water, sewers, and electricity to the kitchen. The wires were squeezed in this thus born intermediate space. The kitchen floor was then neatly covered with laminate boards. The dining room floor and walls were covered with hardboard. The brand new electrically operated kitchen fittings and chairs and tables were distributed to the dining hall. At the last minute, that large restaurant was completed. Simultaneously, the construction site workers' bunkhouse was converted into a restaurant hall and kitchen for the Hungarian's sports team. It consisted of 330 athletes.

The other Olympic teams then dined at the newly completed restaurant Servin Mökki. There were three kinds of restaurant activities throughout the Olympic Games: the Soviet team brought daily raw materials from their homeland, made their own food, and served to its team in the sports hall. The Hungarian team was doing their own food from the ingredients we had procured. The rest of the teams ate at Servin Mökki, where the food was made by Finns of Finnish ingredients. The hustle and bustle extent is probably described by the fact that there were about 60 cleaners on the accommodation side, and Servin Mökki's kitchen and waiter and waitress staff exceeded 130 people.

Teekkari Village was isolated by a high barbed wire fence that ran across Otaniemi from shore to shore. At the road to the village was a gate with a boom, which the soldiers guarded. Everyone who tried to get in had to show an ID card stamped by the Olympic Committee to the soldiers. The commandant of the Competition Village was a retired colonel Lyytinen, who spoke the Russian language. The only teekkari allowed to be involved in this was the then main castle warden Olli Mykkänen.

After all, that Olympic month then passed with its around-the-clock working days, and last least, the guests did not complain for the most part. And when it comes to the sports performances of the people who lived in Otaniemi. Well, you could see gold, silver, and bronze medals every day on several necks as they returned from the Olympic Stadium competitions. And at least one room in Teekkari Village's B-horn was unique. There were as many as four gold medals on its table. And in that room lived the greatest hero of the games, the Czech miracle runner, Emil Zatopek, with his wife. He was also called the human locomotive. Emil ran three of those medals, and Mrs. Zatopekowa threw the fourth one with a spear. So, Teekkari Village did well in the 1952 Olympic Games."
