
A voluntary work activity that brought a happy ending was also the setting up of Teekkari Village's central radio to be ready for use. Due to a lack of money and time, this system had been wholly abandoned. Only the pipeworks had been done, and lead wires were laid to them. The lids of socket outlets were also missing. The heads of the cables stuck out only at 500 different points. The village then comprised 422 resident rooms and 90 dormitory halls. It probably was in 1957, five years after the village was inaugurated, when enthusiasm rose to refurbish the network among the residents. There was certainly no lack of experts when all the village's "electricians" were busy doing drawings and their other plans when others worked by following their instructions. At least the amplifiers "were found" from the basement. The amplifiers were acquired during construction. The amplifying speakers were connected to the network. Little by little, dormitory by dormitory, horn by horn, and castle by castle, we got to listen to Teekkari Village's very own OTAMÖLY\* program. Four channels were opened. Tape and record music were put into two amplifiers. One amplifier was reserved for the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and one was reserved for the news service. Amplifiers were also bought from wholesale, which were sold at purchase pricing to those willing. It is the "fault" of Teekkari Village central radio that my writing series was born. At the villagers' request, I began to dictate these my memoirs on tape, which were then played on Otamöly. The residents could listen to those memoirs on the central radio. It wasn't until later that I took action to unpack my own tapes on paper. Central radio was quite important when it was announced that Otapeople were needed for voluntary work, Servin Mökki parties, Nurse Competitions, or the traditional Vappu Eve's Beer Relay. When massive exponential speakers were installed on the top of castles' roofs, there really was noise both inside and outdoors.

\*Translator's remark: OTANOISE or OTABAWL."