
Now the nerves of the police had tightened so much that they began their counterattack. They invited us as guests with a very kind letter. They asked all the Castle Wardens to be ready at a specific time on the Teekkari Village road. They would pick us up from there. That's what we did, and we all stood there in that H-moment waiting in formal wear. A big black police bus arrived seemingly empty, driven by a serious-looking police officer. He went to the TKY 5 turning point and then came to us. Both doors opened and - then a dozen of uniform police officers, who had been hiding on the floor of the bus, ambushed us. Armed with handcuffs and straight jackets, the bloodthirsty herd rushed on the unsuspecting poor teekkaris; they were derailed to the ground, and "packed," incapacitated, and were forced to the bus. Thanks to my aerodynamic skull shape, I managed to escape. Still, at the door of Servin Mökki, the police officer who had made a Tarzan jump jumped into my legs and started a fierce free wrestling match, where I still got silver. In that rush, by the way, one black button came off my poplin, more on which later. Subjugated and chained, we were transported through Helsinki and twenty kilometers via old Porvoo road until the bus turned onto the right to a side road. Finally, we arrived at a somewhat secluded beach, where I remember was a sauna house for the Finnish Security and Intelligence Service.

Chains and straight jackets were taken off, and so a nice sauna and sausage evening started. Along the evening attracted little attention because the Police College's student body's treasurer was the only one who did not participate wholeheartedly\* (the treasurer was a male) did not participate in having fun. He seemed to be bothered by something. Well, in the general racket, such a pessimist was soon forgotten. Well, was forgot until sometime in the wee hours, one police officer rushed inside and shouted in a blood-curdling voice: "Goddamnit, come to help - Kalle is hanged." The treasurer's name was Kalle. We ran out and into the woods. An unhappy Kalle hung in the lower branch of a mighty pine tree, with a hemp rope around his neck. The night wind just quietly waved a treasurer who had utterly failed to manage the funds. The rope was cut, and the "deceased" was carried in a depressed convoy to the sauna's steam vapors. Standard recovery measures no longer seemed to help. Fortunately, a Castle Warden recalled that from the Teekkaris' Songbook, a consolation message and help has often been found. Fast browsing and Heureka - that's what it read and quite plainly: 

"After receiving the alcohol, he refreshed, raising his glass, said the brethren, to the case"

However, this incident affected us guests so nervously that in the final stages of the rest of the night, e.g., it sometimes happened that as we grabbed the door rib, the whole door followed along. Therefore, once we guests had left on the aforementioned bus back to Otaniemi, reportedly, the hosts spent the rest of the night looking for runaway doors along the woods.

Translator's notice: the original translation goes: "Saatuaan spriitä, virkistyi hän siitä,
kohottaen lasiaan, sanoi veljet asiaan"

The following day my family woke up to a loud doorbell ringing. I swayed to open and - at the door stood the college's tallest officer's in uniform. They handed me a 165 mm diameter black, turned wooden button - to replace the missing piece, which was lost during yesterday's evening, as they reported. Now where in h\*ll had they been able to turn that giant button during that night? That's what they did not tell. In any case, there was a rush in it when even the black paint still grabbed my hand during reception ceremonies. However, I did not knit this button in my poplin. Instead, I have nailed it to the wall in my apartment, and there it remains. It remains as secure as other valuable gifts which I have received from the police and teekkaris.

\*Translator's remark: originally in Finnish, "with full breasts"; this was a pun in the Finnish language."