
Now I remember a Vappueve's jäynä, which the Castle Warden Host of Teekkari Village planned for weeks. The Host planned, worked, built, and attempted with great enthusiasm both day and night to delight the residents with 3 seconds of lasting "outdoor performance." It was decided to shoot a teekkari in orbit around the Earth. It was almost a success. In the bustle and hustle, the TKY 3 A's large chimney was needed, which had become obsolete. The throwing energy was chosen to be, once again, an 800-threaded long rubber rope I borrowed once from Jämijärvi Gliding School. With those, the gliders were thrown into the air from the high ridges of Jämi. We made a human-sized doll, which had its frame a 2" x 4" plank. At the upper end was a strong iron hook. At the bottom was an iron ring. Otherwise, the doll looked like a teekkari with the overalls and tassel cap. This space traveler was then dragged into the boiler room and placed under the chimney into the black carbon room. Those V-shaped rubber ropes were lowered from the roof into the chimney. The doll was left hanging to those ropes from the hook. The hook was attached to its upper part. A thick rope was then threaded from the iron ring at the lower end of the doll. Then the rope was brought from the soot door along the floor to the boiler room. Then the rope was firmly attached to the back wall. Yet another essential item was a birch log. The rope went over the log. Other crucial things were a sharp kitchen chopper borrowed from Servi's Maija, a smoke bomb "rented" from the military, and a fuksi equipped with a radiotelephone. And then the tuning began. The rubber ropes were pulled from the ground in turns using the village's Ferguson tractor and occasionally tied to growing trees. It is worth mentioning that there were on each side the large log wheels at the top of the chimney, along which the ropes ran. Gradually the tension of the ropes was increased. Eventually, the tension was added as much as "nerves endure." A few nights before Vappu, we performed a half-power test trigger in the middle of the night to verify that everything is OK.

And the Vappu eve came, and the village was once again outside in corpore listening to the Host's Vappuday's madness declaration. The declaration culminated in the main host's dramatic announcement that teekkari X would now be removed from the village by a relatively fast method. The countdown started. 10, 9, 8, 7,..., 3, 2, 1, 0. It took ten painful seconds until the chimney fluttered into the sky the said teekkari X. The tassel cap and overalls were fluttering. Those 10 seconds were needed for the fuksi, who was in the basement. The fuksi received the order via radiotelephone. After receiving the order, he then fired the fumigating candle. After that, the whole basement was instantly full of smoke. Also, the log he was meant to hit with the kitchen chopper to break the rope disappeared into the smoke. Striking with the frenzy of despair all over the floor in the smoke as he was about to choke. Finally, that kitchen chopper hit 10 seconds late to the right place, to our luck.

Our grand idea was that at the same time as the doll was leaving, a mighty smoke would blow out of the barrel. That this did not occur, it was only due to a minor "technical malfunction" that the boilers and chimney were cold and that smoke had no will to climb along that cold barrel. Instead, that smoke preferred to dance the ring dance there in the cold basement, around that poor fuksi. As for that space traveler made a handsome arc and landed tassel cap first to the forest between TKY 3 and TKY 2 - in an upward position. The host noted with satisfaction that no one of the attendees was not such a silly bugger to stand at that very point of the landing. This was because the doll had that 2" x 4" piece of plank and that cruel iron hook on the head. By the way, when we threw just the plank at the beginning of the experiments with that rubber rope in the Martinniemi forest between two trees close to each other, one of the hosts arrived late. It just happened to be the "shooting direction." He laconically greeted: "by the way, a plank came across at the footpath, but I did not have time to verify whether it was sawn or planed...""