
Now is the time to tell about the all-around match between me and the teekkari brethren who lived below me, in which again a boring night was filled with little busyness. I guess that was around 02.00 AM when my wife and I woke up to the end of the world - the bells of the resurrection rumbled. My wife plunged into my neck, apologizing for her earlier actions, and I was ready for the same when I came to take the last look out the window. And there it swung. The church bell clock was booming in front of my window. Resonance kept shaking the windows and partly the walls, too. When no Grim Reaper started to be heard, I got out of my bed and looked more closely. The guys had dragged onto the roof several meters long log for the bell, anchored it to the roof, and from that log, that bell hung. The traction rope appeared from the clock's tongue, which went to the dormitory's window, which was below me, and from there inside the window. There the brethren pulled the rope hard. My wife withdrew her apology, and I began the counterattack. I took one of my puppies' ski poles, tied it to another end with ordinary scissors insulating tape, and a tow rope on another free-moving scissor's branch. When I reached out of my window, I got as if I got the bell's traction rope on my scissors fork and then tear it with my traction rope. The noise ended, and we fell asleep - to wake up in about an hour "to the same again." It wasn't a challenge to go in the silence of the night to the roof, pull tens of kilograms weighing some former manor's gruel bell there, put a new traction rope, et cetera. When I was about to fall into Andalusian depression and despair, I noticed the Austrian alpine horn made of ox horn hanging on the wall. I had once bought it as my souvenirs from some of the gloomy mountainous lands of Tyrol. Heureka. There was a feature in the horn that the harder one blew into it, the stronger and at the same time, the higher its voice became.
I rushed to the kitchenette, took my wife's Electrolux vacuum cleaner, and attached its hose to its blowing nozzle. Then I wrapped it with insulating tape to the other end of that alpine hose. Quietly, I lowered my alpine horn from my window to the dormitory's open window below - and the bell kept clanging. I went back next to my beloved wife with the vacuum cleaner plug in my hand, and I asked: "Now?". My wife said, "Now," and I pushed the plug into the wall socket. After that moment woke up the last residents of the village, who were sleeping. The creepy sound of the Alpine horn rushed all around, climbing higher and higher. Less of a unit of time fell silent also the calcification of the bell. The time must have been about 4 AM in the morning. We started the official peace negotiations at 8 AM - after a well-slept night. There was only one article in the peace agreement document. The parties promised never to use such combat weapons again. At the same time, it was stated that the match ended in a draw 1-1 situation. This is how these peaceful nights passed in the peace of the countryside far away in Espoo."