
In connection with an Escapade, it had been agreed that the world-famous brass band RWBK would make a profoundly artistic visit to the Helsinki factory of Suomen Kaapelitehdas\* with a worthy program. To my accident, I ended up being the contact man for that event. After lunch, the staff remained in corpore to the dining hall. There also stumbled the factory's entire high staff, from vuorineuvos\* to the youngest office trainee. The only one that did not come was RWBK. You can guess how mentally uplifting for yours truly it was to sweat and wriggle in front of the invited guests and trying to explain something on a force majeure basis. After waiting for our time, Mister Vuorineuvos declared the event being over, driving his flock back to productive work.

The matter really turned out to be force majeure. RWBK's chief accountant had simply recorded the wrong day to the calendar. We sent an apology patrol to the vuorineuvos. It was agreed that Retuperä would perform the so-called touring factory concert throughout the factory area as compensation for its mistake on a different day. And so it happened. Later, the lord Vuorineuvos of the cable factory calmly stated that his factory had lost due to our Escapade profits of 1.5 workdays. Half a day went awry in the first day's vain anticipation. Also, the concert, which toured the factory, stirred the whole working day. It was reported that some of the machines had to be stopped to let RWBK's sweet chords float in the factory hall.

\*Translator's remark: in English, "The Cable Factory of Finland."

\*\*Translator's remark: "vuorineuvos" does not have an official English translation. The unofficial translation is "Mountain Counselor.""