
---

title: titles.lassy104
author: Ossi Törrönen
---


    
# 104. TES-TV Begins Its Broadcasting At The Electricity Department's Attic

The historical truth, which for one reason or another, tends to sink into the gap of the earth, is that the teekkaris were the first in our country to start also television broadcasting. The legal background person was Tekniikan Edistämissäätiö (TES, "\*Promotion Foundation of Technology\*"). Hence the name TES-TV. TKK provided a couple of rooms in the attic of the Electric Department from Albertinkatu\*. There were a group of teekkaris and "ready low currents" working on birthing the station with great enthusiasm. The first public performance was kind of a part of cable TV, for a cable had been laid from the Opera at Boulevard to the ballroom of old Poli. One evening, a prestigious group of guests started at the dark hall to one single receiver, located on the stage. And yes, there were indeed Ballet Dancers and other trashing characters on the opera stage. It was a great and historical moment. Soon after, those moving in Rööperi\*\* noticed that a high rising antenna mast had been set up to the Electrical Department's yard. Also, live broadcasts got started. Beautiful girls were recruited to work as announcers, even miss Lenita Airisto and Outi Vahtera. Runar Heljo, the radio shop's advertising manager, became program manager and director, initially out of a mere hobby. It was sometime in May 1955, when, to some extent, in some sense, regular part-time broadcasts began. There were only a dozen receivers in the "Helsinki visibility area" initially, but evenly the number then began to increase. One of Teekkari Village's weak current assembled one. The instructions for the assembly came from some English publication. The teekkari left it to my great delight for my use when going elsewhere to do one's practical training. So we had regularly room full during TES broadcast times. As far as is known, at least in Nordic countries was broadcasted the whole Swan Lake by transferring the broadcasting equipment to the Opera House. From there, the picture was directed via cable to the TES broadcast station to Department's attic. From the broadcasting station, the signal was delivered to the sky. In 1959, a profound change took place when TES-TV moved into the ballroom in the basement of Insinööritalo (Engineer House) and got office space from the upper floors. As the activity in these "huge spaces" continued to swell, it surpassed the amateur resources of TES-TV. So a new legal entity, TES-VISIO, was established. TES-VISIO involved shareholders as, e.g., TKY, Ekonomiliitto, Amer-Tupakka Oy, and some others. The Finnish Broadcasting Company's (YLE) television broadcasts also started on its own channel, and then YLE bought the TES-VISIO. TES-VISIO was given a new name, TV-2. So this fabulous thing can end, like all good fairy tales in the phrase: "happily ever after." As for TES's program side, in the early days, it was really living hand-to-mouth. When there was no money, then all the programs had to be begged. Once, program manager Heljo called me at Teekkari Village asking for help when the next day's program list was still completely blank. I recalled a good friend and my fellow student Topi Gerdt, whose bravura was once to whistle and play with a weed shovel and brush. I called him, and Topi gladly agreed. Topi mentioned at the same time that one of his acquaintance's watchmaker, Eemeli Toivonen, can also sing and play to some extent. Of course, I asked him also to TES. From there, a permanent comedian duo Topi and Eemeli was born. Topi no longer exists, but Eemeli still continues as a folk artist known throughout Finland.

\*Translator's remark: University of Technology's Department of Electrical Engineering was located at Albertinkatu 40-42, Helsinki before moving to Otaniemi, Espoo.

\*\*Translator's remark: Rööperi is a slang term for Punavuori (Swedish: Rödbergen), a city block in Helsinki city center area."
