


    
# 42. TKY Board's Exchange Ceremonies At Old Poli

When the boards in TKY "in the old Poli era," the exchange event was festive and memorable for the new board members. According to the event's prestigious nature, both the old resigning and new board had dressed to tailcoats. Only the old resigning board wore academic honors and, according to their rank, sat at the festive table in the upper hall of Poli. The new board got the privilege to sit on the floor. While the old ones fed themselves with the table's dishes, the new ones were initially allowed to settle only for pea soup and sour milk. The ceremonies were led by a specially selected, quick-witted elder, "Herra Korppumestari"\*, handing out speech turns. These were only shared with the old board members. They then bombarded the new board members with the most imaginative questions and slanders. After this starving long "exam period," words were then put into action after Mister Korppumestari announced the depressing news that "Jämerä's Testicles have disappeared." Those were to round-cut granite pillar footstones weighing about 75 kilograms. Those probably have been used a long time ago and released after the columns have been removed from the Poli's lower floor. Their official location was the second-floor corridor, next to the Pokeriboksi's \*\* door. Depending on the resigning board's imagination and enthusiasm, the Jämerä's Testicles may have been hidden really just about anywhere. The boundaries of the hiding area were the plot boundaries, the ground of the basement, and the house's ridge beam. The new board was indeed in sweat and heat when they were searching for the stones. The law was that there was no discussion of board exchange before the rocks were found and moved to the location mentioned above.

Well, after all, those were found in time. With great pain, sweat, and noise, the new consuls dragged those "precious stones of the crown" back in place in front of Pokeriboksi. Also, at the Pokeriboksi's site, there was still a lot of the hustle and bustle. At first, the testicles did not go in the proper order and in the right direction. Eventually, the old board members pardoned the new ones. The situation was accepted, and it was moved on to the next point of the ceremony. It was the inspection of Poli's bombing damages. It was walked as a dignity act criss-cross Poli, the yard, and Lönnrotinkatu singing teekkari songs with burning torches in the hands. In the light of the torches, someone then had a memorable speech in front of Poli's main door in the middle of Lönnrotinkatu. Past generations of teekkaris were reminisced with a sense of respect as "deeply touched."
I especially remember the speech by the student of architecture, Jorma Kontturi. He really exceeded himself. To ensure that the real teekkari spirit certainly moves from the old board to the new, as the last ceremony, the "Spirit of Melska"\* was lit in the Pokeriboksi's lamp. Half a liter of pharmacy spirit was poured into the lamp, which was then ignited. The lights went out, and "Yö kuin sielu neekerin" echoed in Pokeriboksi while Melska's Spirit was fluttering. The new board took office and got academic honors from the resigned board. A festive meal followed in harmony. When Otaniemi was completed, the rest of the night was racketed\*\*\*\* at Rantasauna in Teekkari Village.

\*Translator's remark: 'Korppu' is a Finnish type of rusk. Thus the rough translation could be "Mister Ruskmaster." However, the original title is used to avoid cultural confusion. 'Mestari' means 'master.'

\*\*Translator's remark: Pokeriboksi is the room located in the Poli's tower. Poli is located at Lönnrotinkatu 29, Helsinki, nowadays it is not teekkaris' student union building. It is also known as 'Pokkamonttu.'

\*\*\*Translator: The name 'Melska' refers to Hjalmar Mellin, a senior lecturer at Polytechnic College (predecessor of TKK) 184-1904, director of the Polytechnic College 1904-1908. He obtained the title of professor in 1897. When the Polytechnic College was transformed into TKK, he worked as a professor from 1908 to 1926. Melska was a nickname given by the teekkaris. It is not known if it was used by himself, too.

\*\*\*\*Translator's remark: the original word is "melskata," very likely a respective pun of the professor mentioned above Hjalmar Mellin's nickname 'Melska.'"
