


    
# 101. Hands Up From Antero Salmenkivi

It is probably not very common, either, when a subordinate points his boss with a pistol, so the supervisor at a later event pours out a grin of praise for such behavior. However, this was once the case in Teekkari Village. It was the time "before Dipoli." There was some representation event going on at Rantasauna and the government body and the executive director of that time, MSc. Techn. Antero Salmenkivi and yours truly. As the event continued to the next day's side (as always), my wife called the sauna. She told me on the phone that the Servin Mökki's burglar alarms were ringing again in my apartment. My car happened to be on the sauna beach; I rushed to it, and with me was also the hostess of the sauna, Mrs. Määttänen. And so we went at full throttle towards Servin Mökki.

On the uphill that led from the turning point towards the kitchen door of Servin Mökki came we across with rather a big lout man, who had a box in each of his armpits. I cranked the car's window open and asked the reason for the man's night hike. By listing all the horn heads, L's titles in alphabetical order burst the rogue past us. The rogue disappeared behind TKY 5 to the beach forest. THE GUY SHOWED NO TRACE before I managed to shut down the wagon's engine and get off the car. Back to the car and, with that, back to the service building. Four janitors had received the same alarm, Arvo Kohtala, Esko Mäntylä, Väinö Tienvieri, and Teuvo Turunen were just about to "go for hunting" - as so many times before. When I told the rogue, having run to the beach forest, Kohtala's Arvo went to circle around TKY 3 to go against the rogue. And he didn't even have to walk for a long time when he met him there in a dark forest a man carrying something. "Paws upright and right now, or you'll slump down!" roared Arvo with his Ostrobothnia style aiming in the twilight. He found out that with hands up standing creature was his highest foreman, the executive director Antero Salmenkivi. Antero had left from the Rantasauna directly to the woods behind the Village, encountered a real villain who, in distress, dropped a box (whiskey bottles) on the ground and fled in the direction of the sports hall. The executive director took the dropped packet into his armpit and continued to run until he encountered a gun menacingly waving and with an Ostrobothnian-style roaring subordinate. The situation was cleared without powder smell, and Kohtala received thanks from Salmenkivi "for good work performance." Once the chase continued, the real villain managed to hit Mäntylä's Esko with an iron bar so severely on his back that Esko was in VUP for many days.  VUP stands for Vapautettu ulkopalveluksesta (freed from outdoors service). It is the Finnish military's older slang. But in the end, the villain was hunted down. He had gone into hiding in a temporary transformer booth on the Dipoli construction site. Not, after all, he received, fortunately, 5,000 volts of good alternating current to his body but was later convicted in Espoo's court."
