
When Dipoli was completed in time and began to function, it was our natural duty to invite the top management of the Police College and its student body to an official visit. It is clear that the Castle Warden Host, with the power of several brainstorming sessions, sought to create from this case a "pure-style celebration respecting the value of the guests." I think this "show" was the largest and most excellent in the history of our friendly matches in terms of its design and preparations. At the time mentioned in the invitation, a precious delegation from the Police College then arrived at the front door of Dipoli - to find it locked and the whole building completely dark. While the guests were stunned and already planning to return home, a fuksi, dressed in tattered overalls, stumbled from the direction of Teekkari Village. The fuksi identified the group standing at the door and then asked to follow himself. The crowd of guests then follow our fuksi down to the sports field and by that along the village side's hillside to the gaping, newly mined shelter. This ended the guide's mission, and he did not know anything else about the whole thing. At the mouth of the cave, a pre-lit storm lantern burned, and next to it stood a cardboard table with the text: "Take the lantern, step into the cave, and follow the traffic signs." This police leadership's trek became there in the shelter quite a long one, as our castle wardens had been placed in strategic places in hiding. Their task was to change those traffic signs so that the police team crawled across the entire cave area several times.

When they once again approached the largest hall spot, which was located in the middle, they were approached by Otaniemi's latest technology word - a silvery robot with jerky movements. Strictly speaking and insensitively loud voice, the robot set up a pot of troubles for the whole team, which interfered with his industrial peace and told them to follow him. The robot was achieved with aluminum foil sheets "dressed" on top of a teekkari. The metallic sound suitable for a robot, on the other hand, was performed so that the teekkari had a radiotelephone hanging on his neck. In the twilight, another guy stood hiding at the other end, following the situation and pronouncing the texts. Our guests' "via Dolorosa" continued after this for a few heavy bomb blasts in the middle of the largest cave, when the storm lantern hanging in the robot's and suddenly went out and the whole robot disappeared. And now it started to happen in the pitch black. This cave was about 40 meters wide, 60 meters long, and the ceiling was somewhere at the height of 10 meters. In every corner of the cave was a guy equipped with a 20-liter full gas can. Everyone started to go silently clockwise along the wall, pouring uninterrupted gasoline into the ground. The guys faded into the side branches outside of the resulting petrol ring when the work was done. The police management was trapped inside the petrol ring. Another terrible explosion occurred. The police management found, paralyzed with fear, that they had fallen into the middle of a raging fire ring, which yet seemed to approach the center all the time. However, the fire did not come dangerously close but slowly went out, leaving after more bitter smoke. Upon hearing the matter, the police later assured with one mouth that, paradoxically, the smile started to freeze despite the increasing heat.

Once this spex was over, we turned on the electric work light in the cave and went all out at hand to welcome our guests to Dipoli, which we announced is only 20 meters away - straight up. Charmingly one of the Servin Maija's waitresses then charmingly whistled out, offering appetizers made by Maija herself. The appetizers were cream-decorated cakes. However, it happened so strangely that there was a mere truncheon inside each cake offered to the police. We host ate actual sugar cakes. In goose march, we then wandered out of the cave and to Dipoli's kitchen. We asked guests if they would like to taste ice cream portions after a hot batch under that ground. Our offer seemed to delight the police management, and a pre-set table was brought out of the freezer. Unfortunately, the enjoyment of food was not possible, as the 28-degree freezing of the freezer room had frozen the table cloth and attached it with water and a fixative syringe to the table. The dishes and cutlery were attached to the fabric, and both ice cream and decorations were attached to plates. As we continued then reviewing the kitchen, there was another "ordinary case in the kitchen." This certainly proved to some extent to the authorities that the restaurant industry also has its own dangers. When chef Lappi was currently enthusiastically explaining the kitchen's technicalities to the guests standing around him, a chef boy dressed in a white coat came out from around the corner. He said in a monotonous voice to Lappi: "Oh, pardon me. You seem to have guests. I would have just pointed out that the bloody kitchen chopper was able to slump again". The kitchen boy rose his left hand's sleeve. From the sleeve, stick out a broken bone while the blood was running down the floor. The sight was so authentic that even the police's nose turned white.

As a j채yn채, this was relatively easy. There was a bucket of cow's blood around the corner, the chef boy's left hand was hidden inside the sleeve, and he was holding on to a fresh piece of cow's shin bone, part of which came out of the sleeve. At moment H, the cook just dipped his left hand into the blood bowl and stepped forward. This round of ordeal then, at last, ended in the replacement air room of the Dipoli ventilation center, where three huge fans throw with the force of a hurricane the outside air. As we entered the room, the fans were in the stop position, and in the middle of the room was a small table with crammed wine goblets with their contents - water. We apologized to our guests for our little j채yn채s. We called to raise and empty the glasses to signify eternal friendship. At the same time, the glasses rose, the lights went out, and the fans unleashed the hurricane. We, the house, knew to cover lightning fast to cover the goblet with one hand. Of course, the guests could not know and instead got the goblets' contents to their eyes and a little elsewhere.

In so simple but more modest way, we introduced Dipoli to our dear friends of the police. Then, during the "normal" dinner we offered at the end of the event, we spoke words of appreciation for our efforts, promising to invite us for a return visit. That's what they did pretty soon after, and that visit was "be a play away.""